@Heaving_Snatch_Balance
This drill helps you learn the snatch. Begin by holding a light weight across the back of the shoulders. Your feet should be slightly wider than hip width apart with the feet turned out, the same position that you would perform a squat with.
Begin by dipping with the knees slightly, and popping back up to briefly unload the bar. Drive yourself underneath the bar, elevating it overhead as you descend into a full squat.
Return to a standing position.
@Heavy_Bag_Thrust
Utilize a heavy bag for this exercise. Assume an upright stance next to the bag, with your feet staggered, fairly wide apart. Place your hand on the bag at about chest height. This will be your starting position.
Begin by twisting at the waist, pushing the bag forward as hard as possible. Perform this move quickly, pushing the bag away from your body.
Receive the bag as it swings back by reversing these steps.
@High_Cable_Curls
Stand between a couple of high pulleys and grab a handle in each arm. Position your upper arms in a way that they are parallel to the floor with the palms of your hands facing you. This will be your starting position.
Curl the handles towards you until they are next to your ears. Make sure that as you do so you flex your biceps and exhale. The upper arms should remain stationary and only the forearms should move. Hold for a second in the contracted position as you squeeze the biceps.
Slowly bring back the arms to the starting position.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Hip_Circles_prone
Position yourself on your hands and knees on the ground. Maintaining good posture, raise one bent knee off of the ground. This will be your starting position.
Keeping the knee in a bent position, rotate the femur in an arc, attempting to make a big circle with your knee.
Perform this slowly for a number of repetitions, and repeat on the other side.
@Hip_Extension_with_Bands
Secure one end of the band to the lower portion of a post and attach the other to one ankle.
Facing the attachment point of the band, hold on to the column to stabilize yourself.
Keeping your head and your chest up, move the resisted leg back as far as you can while keeping the knee straight.
Return the leg to the starting position.
@Hip_Flexion_with_Band
Secure one end of the band to the lower portion of a post and attach the other to one ankle.
Face away from the attachment point of the band.
Keeping your head and your chest up, raise your knee up to 90 degrees and pause.
Return the leg to the starting position.
@Hip_Lift_with_Band
After choosing a suitable band, lay down in the middle of the rack, after securing the band on either side of you. If your rack doesn't have pegs, the band can be secured using heavy dumbbells or similar objects, just ensure they won't move.
Adjust your position so that the band is directly over your hips. Bend your knees and place your feet flat on the floor. Your hands can be on the floor or holding the band in position.
Keeping your shoulders on the ground, drive through your heels to raise your hips, pushing into the band as high as you can.
Pause at the top of the motion, and return to the starting position.
@Hug_A_Ball
Seat yourself on the floor.
Straddle an exercise ball between both legs and lower your hips down toward the floor.
Hug your arms around the ball to support your body. Adjust your legs so that your feet are flat on the floor and your knees line up over your ankles. Keep a good grip on the ball so it doesn't roll away from you and send you back onto your buttocks.
@Hug_Knees_To_Chest
Lie down on your back and pull both knees up to your chest.
Hold your arms under the knees, not over (that would put to much pressure on your knee joints).
Slowly pull the knees toward your shoulders. This also stretches your buttocks muscles.
@Hurdle_Hops
Set up a row of hurdles or other small barriers, placing them a few feet apart.
Stand in front of the first hurdle with your feet shoulder width apart. This will be your starting position.
Begin by jumping with both feet over the first hurdle, swinging both arms as you jump.
Absorb the impact of landing by bending the knees, rebounding out of the first leap by jumping over the next hurdle. Continue until you have jumped over all of the hurdles.
@Hyperextensions_Back_Extensions
Lie face down on a hyperextension bench, tucking your ankles securely under the footpads.
Adjust the upper pad if possible so your upper thighs lie flat across the wide pad, leaving enough room for you to bend at the waist without any restriction.
With your body straight, cross your arms in front of you (my preference) or behind your head. This will be your starting position. Tip: You can also hold a weight plate for extra resistance in front of you under your crossed arms.
Start bending forward slowly at the waist as far as you can while keeping your back flat. Inhale as you perform this movement. Keep moving forward until you feel a nice stretch on the hamstrings and you can no longer keep going without a rounding of the back. Tip: Never round the back as you perform this exercise. Also, some people can go farther than others. The key thing is that you go as far as your body allows you to without rounding the back.
Slowly raise your torso back to the initial position as you inhale. Tip: Avoid the temptation to arch your back past a straight line. Also, do not swing the torso at any time in order to protect the back from injury.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Hyperextensions_With_No_Hyperextension_Bench
With someone holding down your legs, slide yourself down to the edge a flat bench until your hips hang off the end of the bench. Tip: Your entire upper body should be hanging down towards the floor. Also, you will be in the same position as if you were on a hyperextension bench but the range of motion will be shorter due to the height of the flat bench vs. that of the hyperextension bench.
With your body straight, cross your arms in front of you (my preference) or behind your head. This will be your starting position. Tip: You can also hold a weight plate for extra resistance in front of you under your crossed arms.
Start bending forward slowly at the waist as far as you can while keeping your back flat. Inhale as you perform this movement. Keep moving forward until you almost touch the floor or you feel a nice stretch on the hamstrings (whichever comes first). Tip: Never round the back as you perform this exercise.
Slowly raise your torso back to the initial position as you exhale. Tip: Avoid the temptation to arch your back past a straight line. Also, do not swing the torso at any time in order to protect the back from injury.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Iliotibial_Tract-SMR
Lay on your side, with the bottom leg placed onto a foam roller between the hip and the knee. The other leg can be crossed in front of you.
Place as much of your weight as is tolerable onto your bottom leg; there is no need to keep your bottom leg in contact with the ground. Be sure to relax the muscles of the leg you are stretching.
Roll your leg over the foam from you hip to your knee, pausing for 10-30 seconds at points of tension. Repeat with the opposite leg.
@Inchworm
Stand with your feet close together. Keeping your legs straight, stretch down and put your hands on the floor directly in front of you. This will be your starting position.
Begin by walking your hands forward slowly, alternating your left and your right. As you do so, bend only at the hip, keeping your legs straight.
Keep going until your body is parallel to the ground in a pushup position.
Now, keep your hands in place and slowly take short steps with your feet, moving only a few inches at a time.
Continue walking until your feet are by hour hands, keeping your legs straight as you do so.
@Incline_Barbell_Triceps_Extension
Hold a barbell with an overhand grip (palms down) that is a little closer together than shoulder width.
Lie back on an incline bench set at any angle between 45-75-degrees.
Bring the bar overhead with your arms extended and elbows in. The arms should be in line with the torso above the head. This will be your starting position.
Now lower the bar in a semicircular motion behind your head until your forearms touch your biceps. Inhale as you perform this movement. Tip: Keep your upper arms stationary and close to your head at all times. Only the forearms should move.
Return to the starting position as you breathe out and you contract the triceps. Hold the contraction for a second.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Incline_Bench_Pull
Grab a dumbbell in each hand and lie face down on an incline bench that is set to an incline that is approximately 30 degrees.
Let the arms hang to your sides fully extended as they point to the floor.
Turn the wrists until your hands have a pronated (palms down) grip.
Now flare the elbows out. This will be your starting position.
As you breathe out, start to pull the dumbbells up as if you are doing a reverse bench press. You will do this by bending at the elbows and bringing the upper arms up as you let the forearms hang. Continue this motion until the upper arms are at the same level as your back. Tip: The elbows will come out to the side and your upper arms and torso should make the letter "T" at the top of the movement. Hold the contraction at the top for a second.
Slowly go back down to the starting position as you breathe in.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Incline_Cable_Chest_Press
Adjust the weight to an appropriate amount and be seated, grasping the handles. Your upper arms should be about 45 degrees to the body, with your head and chest up. The elbows should be bent to about 90 degrees. This will be your starting position.
Begin by extending through the elbow, pressing the handles together straight in front of you. Keep your shoulder blades retracted as you execute the movement.
After pausing at full extension, return to the starting position, keeping tension on the cables.
@Incline_Cable_Flye
To get yourself into the starting position, set the pulleys at the floor level (lowest level possible on the machine that is below your torso).
Place an incline bench (set at 45 degrees) in between the pulleys, select a weight on each one and grab a pulley on each hand.
With a handle on each hand, lie on the incline bench and bring your hands together at arms length in front of your face. This will be your starting position.
With a slight bend of your elbows (in order to prevent stress at the biceps tendon), lower your arms out at both sides in a wide arc until you feel a stretch on your chest. Breathe in as you perform this portion of the movement. Tip: Keep in mind that throughout the movement, the arms should remain stationary. The movement should only occur at the shoulder joint.
Return your arms back to the starting position as you squeeze your chest muscles and exhale. Hold the contracted position for a second. Tip: Make sure to use the same arc of motion used to lower the weights.
Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
@Incline_Dumbbell_Bench_With_Palms_Facing_In
Lie back on an incline bench with a dumbbell on each hand on top of your thighs. The palms of your hand will be facing each other.
By using your thighs to help you get the dumbbells up, clean the dumbbells one arm at a time so that you can hold them at shoulder width.
Once at shoulder width, keep the palms of your hands with a neutral grip (palms facing each other). Keep your elbows flared out with the upper arms in line with the shoulders (perpendicular to the torso) and the elbows bent creating a 90-degree angle between the upper arm and the forearm. This will be your starting position.
Now bring down the weights slowly to your side as you breathe in. Keep full control of the dumbbells at all times.
As you breathe out, push the dumbbells up using your pectoral muscles. Lock your arms in the contracted position, hold for a second and then start coming down slowly. Tip: It should take at least twice as long to go down than to come up.
Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
When you are done, place the dumbbells back in your thighs and then on the floor. This is the safest manner to dispose of the dumbbells.
@Incline_Dumbbell_Curl
Sit back on an incline bench with a dumbbell in each hand held at arms length. Keep your elbows close to your torso and rotate the palms of your hands until they are facing forward. This will be your starting position.
While holding the upper arm stationary, curl the weights forward while contracting the biceps as you breathe out. Only the forearms should move. Continue the movement until your biceps are fully contracted and the dumbbells are at shoulder level. Hold the contracted position for a second.
Slowly begin to bring the dumbbells back to starting position as your breathe in.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Incline_Dumbbell_Flyes
Hold a dumbbell on each hand and lie on an incline bench that is set to an incline angle of no more than 30 degrees.
Extend your arms above you with a slight bend at the elbows.
Now rotate the wrists so that the palms of your hands are facing you. Tip: The pinky fingers should be next to each other. This will be your starting position.
As you breathe in, start to slowly lower the arms to the side while keeping the arms extended and while rotating the wrists until the palms of the hand are facing each other. Tip: At the end of the movement the arms will be by your side with the palms facing the ceiling.
As you exhale start to bring the dumbbells back up to the starting position by reversing the motion and rotating the hands so that the pinky fingers are next to each other again. Tip: Keep in mind that the movement will only happen at the shoulder joint and at the wrist. There is no motion that happens at the elbow joint.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Incline_Dumbbell_Flyes_-_With_A_Twist
Hold a dumbbell in each hand and lie on an incline bench that is set to an incline angle of no more than 30 degrees.
Extend your arms above you with a slight bend at the elbows.
Now rotate the wrists so that the palms of your hands are facing you. Tip: The pinky fingers should be next to each other. This will be your starting position.
As you breathe in, start to slowly lower the arms to the side while keeping the arms extended and while rotating the wrists until the palms of the hand are facing each other. Tip: At the end of the movement the arms will be by your side with the palms facing the ceiling.
As you exhale start to bring the dumbbells back up to the starting position by reversing the motion and rotating the hands so that the pinky fingers are next to each other again. Tip: Keep in mind that the movement will only happen at the shoulder joint and at the wrist. There is no motion that happens at the elbow joint.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Incline_Dumbbell_Press
Lie back on an incline bench with a dumbbell in each hand atop your thighs. The palms of your hands will be facing each other.
Then, using your thighs to help push the dumbbells up, lift the dumbbells one at a time so that you can hold them at shoulder width.
Once you have the dumbbells raised to shoulder width, rotate your wrists forward so that the palms of your hands are facing away from you. This will be your starting position.
Be sure to keep full control of the dumbbells at all times. Then breathe out and push the dumbbells up with your chest.
Lock your arms at the top, hold for a second, and then start slowly lowering the weight. Tip Ideally, lowering the weights should take about twice as long as raising them.
Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
When you are done, place the dumbbells back on your thighs and then on the floor. This is the safest manner to release the dumbbells.
@Incline_Hammer_Curls
Seat yourself on an incline bench with a dumbbell in each hand. You should pressed firmly against he back with your feet together. Allow the dumbbells to hang straight down at your side, holding them with a neutral grip. This will be your starting position.
Initiate the movement by flexing at the elbow, attempting to keep the upper arm stationary.
Continue to the top of the movement and pause, then slowly return to the start position.
@Incline_Inner_Biceps_Curl
Hold a dumbbell in each hand and lie back on an incline bench.
The dumbbells should be at arm's length hanging at your sides and your palms should be facing out. This will be your starting position.
Now as you exhale curl the weight outward and up while keeping your forearms in line with your side deltoids. Continue the curl until the dumbbells are at shoulder height and to the sides of your deltoids. Tip: The end of the movement should look similar to a double biceps pose.
After a second contraction at the top of the movement, start to inhale and slowly lower the weights back to the starting position using the same path used to bring them up.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Incline_Push-Up
Stand facing bench or sturdy elevated platform. Place hands on edge of bench or platform, slightly wider than shoulder width.
Position forefoot back from bench or platform with arms and body straight. Arms should be perpendicular to body. Keeping body straight, lower chest to edge of box or platform by bending arms.
Push body up until arms are extended. Repeat.
@Incline_Push-Up_Close-Grip
Stand facing a Smith machine bar or sturdy elevated platform at an appropriate height.
Place your hands next to one another on the bar.
Position your feet back from the bar with arms and body straight. This will be your starting position.
Keeping your body straight, lower your chest to the bar by bending the arms.
Return to the starting position by extending the elbows, pressing yourself back up.
@Incline_Push-Up_Depth_Jump
For this drill you will need a box about 12 inches high, and two thick mats or aerobics steps.
Place the steps just outside of your shoulders, and place your feet on top of the box so that you are in an incline pushup position, your hands just inside the steps. This will be your starting position.
Begin by bending at the elbows to lower your body, quickly reversing position to push your body off of the ground. As you leave the ground, move your hands onto the steps, bending your elbows to absorb the impact.
Repeat the motion to return to the starting position.
@Incline_Push-Up_Medium
Stand facing a Smith machine bar or sturdy elevated platform at an appropriate height.
Place your hands on the bar, with your hands about shoulder width apart.
Position your feet back from the bar with arms and body straight. This will be your starting position.
Keeping your body straight, lower your chest to the bar by bending the arms.
Return to the starting position by extending the elbows, pressing yourself back up.
@Incline_Push-Up_Reverse_Grip
Stand facing a Smith machine bar or sturdy elevated platform at an appropriate height.
Place your hands on the bar palms up, with your hands about shoulder width apart.
Position your feet back from the bar with arms and body straight. This will be your starting position.
Keeping your body straight, lower your chest to the bar by bending the arms.
Return to the starting position by extending the elbows, pressing yourself back up.
@Incline_Push-Up_Wide
Stand facing a Smith machine bar or sturdy elevated platform at an appropriate height.
Place your hands on the bar, with your hands wider than shoulder width.
Position your feet back from the bar with arms and body straight. Your arms should be perpendicular to the body. This will be your starting position.
Keeping your body straight, lower your chest to the bar by bending the arms.
Return to the starting position by extending the elbows, pressing yourself back up.
@Intermediate_Groin_Stretch
Lie on your back with your legs extended. Loop a belt, rope, or band around one of your feet, and swing that leg as far to the side as you can. This will be your starting position.
Pull gently on the belt to create tension in your groin and hamstring muscles. Hold for 10-20 seconds, and repeat on the other side.
@Intermediate_Hip_Flexor_and_Quad_Stretch
Lie face down on the floor, with a rope, belt, or band looped around one foot.
Flex the knee and extend the hip of the leg to be stretched, using both hands to pull on the belt. Your knee and your hip should come off of the floor, creating tension in the hip flexors and quadriceps. Hold the stretch for 10-20 seconds, and repeat on the other leg.
@Internal_Rotation_with_Band
Choke the band around a post. The band should be at the same height as your elbow. Stand with your right side to the band a couple of feet away.
Grasp the end of the band with your right hand, and keep your elbow pressed firmly to your side. We recommend you hold a pad or foam roll in place with your elbow to keep it firmly in position.
With your upper arm in position, your elbow should be flexed to 90 degrees with your hand reaching away from your torso. This will be your starting position.
Execute the movement by rotating your arm in a forehand motion, keeping your elbow in place.
Continue as far as you are able, pause, and then return to the starting position.
@Inverted_Row
Position a bar in a rack to about waist height. You can also use a smith machine.
Take a wider than shoulder width grip on the bar and position yourself hanging underneath the bar. Your body should be straight with your heels on the ground with your arms fully extended. This will be your starting position.
Begin by flexing the elbow, pulling your chest towards the bar. Retract your shoulder blades as you perform the movement.
Pause at the top of the motion, and return yourself to the start position.
Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
@Inverted_Row_with_Straps
Hang a rope or suspension straps from a rack or other stable object. Grasp the ends and position yourself in a supine position hanging from the ropes. Your body should be straight with your heels on the ground with your arms fully extended. This will be your starting position.
Begin by flexing the elbow, pulling your chest to your hands. Retract your shoulder blades as you perform the movement.
Pause at the top of the motion, and return yourself to the start position.
Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
@Iron_Cross

@Iron_Crosses_stretch
Lie face down on the floor, with your arms extended out to your side, palms pressed to the floor. This will be your starting position.
To begin, flex one knee and bring that leg across the back of your body, attempting to touch it to the ground near the opposite hand.
Promptly return the leg to the starting postion, and quickly repeat with the other leg. Continue alternating for 10-20 repetitions.
@Isometric_Chest_Squeezes
While either seating or standing, bend your arms at a 90-degree angle and place the palms of your hands together in front of your chest. Tip: Your hands should be open with the palms together and fingers facing forward (perpendicular to your torso).
Push both hands against each other as you contract your chest. Start with slow tension and increase slowly. Keep breathing normally as you execute this contraction.
Hold for the recommended number of seconds.
Now release the tension slowly.
Rest for the recommended amount of time and repeat.
@Isometric_Neck_Exercise_-_Front_And_Back
With your head and neck in a neutral position (normal position with head erect facing forward), place both of your hands on the front side of your head.
Now gently push forward as you contract the neck muscles but resisting any movement of your head. Start with slow tension and increase slowly. Keep breathing normally as you execute this contraction.
Hold for the recommended number of seconds.
Now release the tension slowly.
Rest for the recommended amount of time and repeat with your hands placed on the back side of your head.
@Isometric_Neck_Exercise_-_Sides
With your head and neck in a neutral position (normal position with head erect facing forward), place your left hand on the left side of your head.
Now gently push towards the left as you contract the left neck muscles but resisting any movement of your head. Start with slow tension and increase slowly. Keep breathing normally as you execute this contraction.
Hold for the recommended number of seconds.
Now release the tension slowly.
Rest for the recommended amount of time and repeat with your right hand placed on the right side of your head.
@Isometric_Wipers
Assume a push-up position, supporting your weight on your hands and toes while keeping your body straight. Your hands should be just outside of shoulder width. This will be your starting position.
Begin by shifting your body weight as far to one side as possible, allowing the elbow on that side to flex as you lower your body.
Reverse the motion by extending the flexed arm, pushing yourself up and then dropping to the other side.
Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
@IT_Band_and_Glute_Stretch
Loop a belt, rope, or band around one of your feet, and swing that leg across your body to the opposite side, keeping the leg extended as you lay on the ground. This will be your starting position.
Keeping your foot off of the floor, pull on the belt, using the tension to pull the toes up. Hold for 10-20 seconds, and repeat on the other side.
@Jackknife_Sit-Up
Lie flat on the floor (or exercise mat) on your back with your arms extended straight back behind your head and your legs extended also. This will be your starting position.
As you exhale, bend at the waist while simultaneously raising your legs and arms to meet in a jackknife position. Tip: The legs should be extended and lifted at approximately a 35-45 degree angle from the floor and the arms should be extended and parallel to your legs. The upper torso should be off the floor.
While inhaling, lower your arms and legs back to the starting position.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Janda_Sit-Up
Position your body on the floor in the basic sit-up position; knees to a ninety degree angle with feet flat on the floor and arms either crossed over your chest or to the sides. This will be your starting position.
As you strongly tighten your glutes and hamstrings, fill your lungs with air and in a slow (three to six second count) ascent, slowly exhale. Tip: It is important to tighten the glutes and hamstrings as this will cause the hip flexors to be inactivated in a process called reciprocal inhibition, which basically means that opposite muscles to the contracted ones will relax.
As you inhale, slowly go back in a controlled manner to the starting position.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Jefferson_Squats
Place a barbell on the floor.
Stand in the middle of the bar length wise.
Bend down by bending at the knees and keeping your back straight and grasp the front of the bar with your right hand. Your palm should be in (neutral grip) facing the left side.
Grasp the rear of the bar with your left hand. The palm of your hand should be in neutral grip alignment (palms facing the right side). Tip: Ensure that your grip is even on the bar. Your torso should be positioned right in the middle of the bar and the distance between your torso and your right hand (which should be at the front) should be the same as the distance between your torso and your left hand (which should be to your back).
Now stand straight up with the weight. Tip: Your feet should be shoulder width apart and your toes slightly pointed out.
Squat down by bending at the knees and keeping your back straight until your upper thighs are parallel with the floor. Tip: Keep your back as vertical as possible with the floor and your head up. Also remember to not let your knees go past your toes. Inhale during this portion of the movement.
Now drive yourself back up to the starting position by pushing with the feet . Tip: Keep the bar hanging at arm's length and your elbows locked with a slight bend. The arms only serve as hooks. Avoid doing any lifting with them. Do the lifting with your thighs; not your arms.
@Jerk_Balance
This drill helps you learn to drive yourself low enough during the jerk and corrects those who move backward during the movement. Begin with the bar racked in the jerk position, with the shoulders forward, torso upright, and the feet split slightly apart.
Initiate the movement as you would a normal jerk, dipping at the knees while keeping your torso vertical, and driving back up forcefully, using momentum and not your arms to elevate the weight.
Keep the rear foot in place, using it to drive your body forward into a full split as you jerk the weight. Recover by standing up with the weight overhead.
@Jerk_Dip_Squat
This movement strengthens the dip portion of the jerk. Begin with the bar racked in the jerk position, with the shoulders forward to create a shelf and the bar lightly contacting the throat. The feet should be directly under the hips, with the feet turned out as is comfortable.
Keeping the torso vertical, dip by flexing the knees, allowing them to travel forward and without moving the hips to the rear. The dip should not be excessive. Return the weight to the starting position by driving forcefully though the feet.
@JM_Press
Start the exercise the same way you would a close grip bench press. You will lie on a flat bench while holding a barbell at arms length (fully extended) with the elbows in. However, instead of having the arms perpendicular to the torso, make sure the bar is set in a direct line above the upper chest. This will be your starting position.
Now beginning from a fully extended position lower the bar down as if performing a lying triceps extension. Inhale as you perform this movement. When you reach the half way point, let the bar roll back about one inch by moving the upper arms towards your legs until they are perpendicular to the torso. Tip: Keep the bend at the elbows constant as you bring the upper arms forward.
As you exhale, press the bar back up by using the triceps to perform a close grip bench press.
Now go back to the starting position and start over.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Jogging_Treadmill
To begin, step onto the treadmill and select the desired option from the menu. Most treadmills have a manual setting, or you can select a program to run. Typically, you can enter your age and weight to estimate the amount of calories burned during exercise. Elevation can be adjusted to change the intensity of the workout.
Treadmills offer convenience, cardiovascular benefits, and usually have less impact than jogging outside. A 150 lb person will burn almost 250 calories jogging for 30 minutes, compared to more than 450 calories running. Maintain proper posture as you jog, and only hold onto the handles when necessary, such as when dismounting or checking your heart rate.
@Keg_Load
To load kegs, place the desired number a distance from the loading platform, typically 30-50 feet.
Begin by grabbing the close handle of the first keg, tilting it onto its side to grab the opposite edge of the bottom of the keg. Lift the keg up to your chest.
The higher you can place the keg, the faster you should be able to move to the platform. Shouldering is usually not allowed. Be sure to keep a firm hold on the keg. Move as quickly as possible to the platform, and load it, extending through your hips, knees, and ankles to get it as high as possible.
Return to the starting position to retrieve the next keg, and repeat until the event is completed.
@Kettlebell_Arnold_Press
Clean a kettlebell to your shoulder. Clean the kettlebell to your shoulder by extending through the legs and hips as you raise the kettlebell towards your shoulder. The palm should be facing inward.
Looking straight ahead, press the kettlebell out and overhead, rotating your wrist so that your palm faces forward at the top of the motion.
Return the kettlebell to the starting position, with the palm facing in.
@Kettlebell_Dead_Clean
Place kettlebell between your feet. To get in the starting position, push your butt back and look straight ahead.
Clean the kettlebell to your shoulder. Clean the kettlebell to your shoulders by extending through the legs and hips as you raise the kettlebell towards your shoulder. The wrist should rotate as you do so.
Lower the kettlebell, keeping the hamstrings loaded by keeping your back straight and your butt out.
@Kettlebell_Figure_8
Place one kettlebell between your legs and take a wider than shoulder width stance. Bend over by pushing your butt out and keeping your back flat.
Pick up a kettlebell and pass it to your other hand between your legs. The receiving hand should reach from behind the legs. Go back and forth for several repetitions.
@Kettlebell_Halo
Stand tall with your feet hip-width apart. Hold a kettlebell upside down by the horns, with the bell above your hands and close to your chest. Brace your abdominals and squeeze your glutes so your ribcage stays down. This is your starting position.
Keeping your elbows close to your head, move the kettlebell up past one ear and around behind your head.
Continue the circle past the opposite ear and back down to the starting position in front of your chest, letting the bell pass close to your body throughout.
Complete the prescribed number of circles in one direction, then repeat the same number in the opposite direction.
Move slowly and keep your head, hips and lower back still. If your lower back arches or the bell drifts far from your head, use a lighter weight.
@Kettlebell_Halo_With_Overhead_Extension
Stand tall with your feet hip-width apart. Hold a kettlebell upside down by the horns, with the bell above your hands and close to your chest. Brace your abdominals and squeeze your glutes so your ribcage stays down. This is your starting position.
Keeping your elbows close to your head, move the kettlebell up past one ear and around until it sits behind your head. Pause here.
From this position, extend your elbows to press the kettlebell up and overhead until your arms are straight, keeping your upper arms alongside your head.
Bend your elbows to lower the kettlebell back to the pause position behind your head, under control.
Continue the circle past the opposite ear and back down to the starting position in front of your chest to complete one repetition.
Alternate the direction of the circle on each repetition. Keep your head, hips and lower back still throughout; if your lower back arches or you cannot reach the overhead position without leaning back, use a lighter weight or perform the halo and the extension as separate exercises.
@Kettlebell_Hang_Clean
Place kettlebell between your feet. To get in the starting position, push your butt back and look straight ahead.
Clean kettlebell to your shoulder. Clean the kettlebell to your shoulders by extending through the legs and hips as you raise the kettlebell towards your shoulder. The wrist should rotate as you do so.
Lower kettlebell to a hanging position between your legs while keeping the hamstrings loaded. Keep your head up at all times.
@Kettlebell_One-Legged_Deadlift
Hold a kettlebell by the handle in one hand. Stand on one leg, on the same side that you hold the kettlebell.
Keeping that knee slightly bent, perform a stiff legged deadlift by bending at the hip, extending your free leg behind you for balance.
Continue lowering the kettlebell until you are parallel to the ground, and then return to the upright position.
@Kettlebell_Overhead_Triceps_Extension
Stand with your feet hip-width apart, holding a kettlebell by the horns with both hands. Press it overhead until your arms are extended, with the bell hanging behind your hands.
Brace your abdominals and keep your upper arms vertical and close to your head. This is your starting position.
Bend at the elbows to lower the kettlebell behind your head, going as far as your shoulder mobility allows without your elbows flaring outward.
Extend your elbows to press the kettlebell back to the starting position, keeping your upper arms still throughout.
Keep your ribcage down and avoid arching your lower back as you extend.
@Kettlebell_Pass_Between_The_Legs
Place one kettlebell between your legs and take a comfortable stance. Bend over by pushing your butt out and keeping your back flat.
Pick up a kettlebell and pass it to your other hand between your legs, in the fashion of a "W". Go back and forth for several repetitions.
@Kettlebell_Pirate_Ships
With a wide stance, hold a kettlebell with both hands. Allow it to hang at waist level with your arms extended. This will be your starting position.
Initiate the movement by turning to one side, swinging the kettlebell to head height. Briefly pause at the top of the motion.
Allow the bell to drop as you rotate to the opposite side, again raising the kettlebell to head height.
Repeat for the desired amount of repetitions.
@Kettlebell_Pistol_Squat
Pick up a kettlebell with two hands and hold it by the horns. Hold one leg off of the floor and squat down on the other.
Squat down by flexing the knee and sitting back with the hips, holding the kettlebell up in front of you.
Hold the bottom position for a second and then reverse the motion, driving through the heel and keeping your head and chest up.
Lower yourself again and repeat.
@Kettlebell_Seated_Press
Sit on the floor and spread your legs out comfortably.
Clean one kettlebell to your shoulder.
Press the kettlebell up and out until it is locked out overhead. Return to the starting position.
@Kettlebell_Seesaw_Press
Clean two kettlebells two your shoulders.
Press one kettlebell.
Lower the kettlebell and immediately press the other kettlebell. Make sure to do the same amount of reps on both sides.
@Kettlebell_Sumo_High_Pull
Place a kettlebell on the ground between your feet. Position your feet in a wide stance, and grasp the kettlebell with two hands. Set your hips back as far as possible, with your knees bent. Keep your chest and head up. This will be your starting position.
Begin by extending the hips and knees, simultaneously pulling the kettlebell to your shoulders, raising your elbows as you do so. Reverse the motion to return to the starting position.
@Kettlebell_Thruster
Clean two kettlebells to your shoulders. Clean the kettlebells to your shoulders by extending through the legs and hips as you pull the kettlebells towards your shoulders. Rotate your wrists as you do so. This will be your starting position.
Begin to squat by flexing your hips and knees, lowering your hips between your legs. Maintain an upright, straight back as you descend as low as you can.
At the bottom, reverse direction and squat by extending your knees and hips, driving through your heels. As you do so, press both kettlebells overhead by extending your arms straight up, using the momentum from the squat to help drive the weights upward.
As you begin the next repetition, return the weights to the shoulders.
@Kettlebell_Turkish_Get-Up_Lunge_style
Lie on your back on the floor and press a kettlebell to the top position by extending the elbow. Bend the knee on the same side as the kettlebell.
Keeping the kettlebell locked out at all times, pivot to the opposite side and use your non- working arm to assist you in driving forward to the lunge position. Using your free hand, push yourself to a seated position, then progressing to one knee.
While looking up at the kettlebell, slowly stand up. Reverse the motion back to the starting position and repeat.
@Kettlebell_Turkish_Get-Up_Squat_style
Lie on your back on the floor and press a kettlebell to the top position by extending the elbow. Bend the knee on the same side as the kettlebell.
Keeping the kettlebell locked out at all times, pivot to the opposite side and use your non- working arm to assist you in driving forward to the lunge position.
Using your free hand, push yourself to a seated position, then progressing to your feet. While looking up at the kettlebell, slowly stand up. Reverse the motion back to the starting position and repeat.
@Kettlebell_Windmill
Place a kettlebell in front of your lead foot and clean and press it overhead with your opposite arm. Clean the kettlebell to your shoulder by extending through the legs and hips as you pull the kettlebell towards your shoulders. Rotate your wrist as you do so, so that the palm faces forward. Press it overhead by extending the elbow.
Keeping the kettlebell locked out at all times, push your butt out in the direction of the locked out kettlebell. Turn your feet out at a forty-five degree angle from the arm with the locked out kettlebell. Bending at the hip to one side, sticking your butt out, slowly lean until you can touch the floor with your free hand. Keep your eyes on the kettlebell that you hold over your head at all times.
Pause for a second after reaching the ground and reverse the motion back to the starting position.
@Kipping_Muscle_Up
Grip the rings using a false grip, with the base of your palms on top of the rings.
Begin with a movement swinging your legs backward slightly.
Counter that movement by swinging your legs forward and up, jerking your chin and chest back, pulling yourself up with both arms as you do so. As you reach the top position of the pull-up, pull the rings to your armpits as you roll your shoulders forward, allowing your elbows to move straight back behind you. This puts you into the proper position to continue into the dip portion of the movement.
Maintaining control and stability, extend through the elbow to complete the motion.
Use care when lowering yourself to the ground.
@Knee_Across_The_Body
Lie down on the floor with your right leg straight. Bend your left leg and lower it across your body, holding the knee down toward the floor with your right hand. (The knee doesn't need to touch the floor if you're tight.)
Place your left arm comfortably beside you and turn your head to the left. Imagine you have a weight tied to your tailbone. let your tailbone fall back toward the floor as your chest reaches in the opposite direction to stretch your lower back. Switch sides.
@Knee_Circles
Stand with your legs together and hands by your waist.
Now move your knees in a circular motion as you breathe normally.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Knee_Hip_Raise_On_Parallel_Bars
Position your body on the vertical leg raise bench so that your forearms are resting on the pads next to the torso and holding on to the handles. Your arms will be bent at a 90 degree angle.
The torso should be straight with the lower back pressed against the pad of the machine and the legs extended pointing towards the floor. This will be your starting position.
Now as you breathe out, lift your legs up as you keep them extended. Continue this movement until your legs are roughly parallel to the floor and then hold the contraction for a second. Tip: Do not use any momentum or swinging as you perform this exercise.
Slowly go back to the starting position as you breathe in.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Knee_Tuck_Jump
Begin in a comfortable standing position with your knees slightly bent. Hold your hands in front of you, palms down with your fingertips together at chest height. This will be your starting position.
Rapidly dip down into a quarter squat and immediately explode upward. Drive the knees towards the chest, attempting to touch them to the palms of the hands.
Jump as high as you can, raising your knees up, and then ensure a good land be re-extending your legs, absorbing impact through be allowing the knees to rebend.
@Kneeling_Arm_Drill
This drill helps increase arm efficiency during the run. Begin kneeling, left foot in front, right knee down. Apply pressure through the front heel to keep your glutes and hamstrings activated.
Begin by blocking the arms in long, pendulum like swings. Close the arm angle, blocking with the arms as you would when jogging, progressing to a run and finally a sprint.
As soon as your hands pass the hip, accelerate them forward during the sprinting motion to move them as quickly as possible.
Switch knees and repeat.
@Kneeling_Cable_Crunch_With_Alternating_Oblique_Twists
Connect a rope attachment to a high pulley cable and position a mat on the floor in front of it.
Grab the rope with both hands and kneel approximately two feet back from the tower.
Position the rope behind your head with your hands by your ears.
Keep your hands in the same place, contract your abs and pull downward on the rope in a crunching movement until your elbows reach your knees.
Pause briefly at the bottom and rise up in a slow and controlled manner until you reach the starting position.
Repeat the same downward movement until you're halfway down, at which time you'll begin rotating one of your elbows to the opposite knee.
Again, pause briefly at the bottom and rise up in a slow and controlled manner until you reach the starting position.
Repeat the same movement as before, but alternate the other elbow to the opposite knee.
Continue this series of movements to failure.
@Kneeling_Cable_Triceps_Extension
Place a bench sideways in front of a high pulley machine.
Hold a straight bar attachment above your head with your hands about 6 inches apart with your palms facing down.
Face away from the machine and kneel.
Place your head and the back of your upper arms on the bench. Your elbows should be bent with the forearms pointing towards the high pulley. This will be your starting position.
While keeping your upper arms close to your head at all times with the elbows in, press the bar out in a semicircular motion until the elbows are locked and your arms are parallel to the floor. Contract the triceps hard and keep this position for a second. Exhale as you perform this movement.
Slowly return to the starting position as you breathe in.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Kneeling_Forearm_Stretch
Start by kneeling on a mat with your palms flat and your fingers pointing back toward your knees.
Slowly lean back keeping your palms flat on the floor until you feel a stretch in your wrists and forearms. Hold for 20-30 seconds.
@Kneeling_High_Pulley_Row
Select the appropriate weight using a pulley that is above your head. Attach a rope to the cable and kneel a couple of feet away, holding the rope out in front of you with both arms extended. This will be your starting position.
Initiate the movement by flexing the elbows and fully retracting your shoulders, pulling the rope toward your upper chest with your elbows out.
After pausing briefly, slowly return to the starting position.
@Kneeling_Hip_Flexor
Kneel on a mat and bring your right knee up so the bottom of your foot is on the floor and extend your left leg out behind you so the top of your foot is on the floor.
Shift your weight forward until you feel a stretch in your hip. Hold for 15 seconds, then repeat for your other side.