@Seated_Front_Deltoid
Sit upright on the floor with your legs bent, your partner standing behind you. Stick your arms straight out to your sides, with your palms facing the ground. Attempt to move them as far behind you as possible, as your assistant holds your wrists. This will be your starting position.
Keeping your elbows straight, attempt to move your arms to the front, with your partner gently restraining you to prevent any actual movement for 10-20 seconds.
Now, relax your muscles and allow your partner to gently increase the stretch on the shoulders and chest. Hold for 10 to 20 seconds.
@Seated_Glute
In a seated position with your knees bent, cross one ankle over the opposite knee. Your partner will stand behind you. Now, lean forward as your partner braces your shoulders with their hands. This will be your starting position.
Attempt to push your torso back for 10-20 seconds, as your partner prevents any actual movement of your torso.
Now relax your muscles as your partner increases the stretch by gently pushing your torso forward for 10-20 seconds.
@Seated_Good_Mornings
Set up a box in a power rack. The pins should be set at an appropriate height. Begin by stepping under the bar and placing it across the back of the shoulders, not on top of your traps. Squeeze your shoulder blades together and rotate your elbows forward, attempting to bend the bar across your shoulders.
Remove the bar from the rack, creating a tight arch in your lower back. Keep your head facing forward. With your back, shoulders, and core tight, push your knees and butt out and you begin your descent. Sit back with your hips until you are seated on the box. This will be your starting position.
Keeping the bar tight, bend forward at the hips as much as possible. If you set the pins to what would be parallel, you not only have a safety if you fail, but know when to stop.
Pause just above the pins and reverse the motion until your torso it upright.
@Seated_Hamstring
In a seated position with your legs extended, have your partner stand behind you. Now, lean forward as your partner braces your shoulders with their hands. This will be your starting position.
Attempt to push your torso back for 10-20 seconds, as your partner prevents any actual movement of your torso.
Now relax your muscles as your partner increases the stretch by gently pushing your torso forward for 10-20 seconds.
@Seated_Hamstring_and_Calf_Stretch
Loop a belt, rope, or band around one foot. Sit down with both legs extended . This will be your starting position.
Leaning forward slightly, pull on the belt to draw the toes of your foot back. Hold this position for 10-20 seconds and then repeat with the other leg.
@Seated_Head_Harness_Neck_Resistance
Place a neck strap on the floor at the end of a flat bench. Once you have selected the weights, sit at the end of the flat bench with your feet wider than shoulder width apart from each other. Your toes should be pointed out.
Slowly move your torso forward until it is almost parallel with the floor. Using both hands, securely position the neck strap around your head. Tip: Make sure the weights are still lying on the floor to prevent any strain on the neck. Now grab the weight with both hands while elevating your torso back until it is almost perpendicular to the floor. Note: Your head and torso needs to be slightly tilted forward to perform this exercise.
Now place both hands on top of your knees. This is the starting position.
Slowly lower your neck down until your chin touches the upper part of your chest while breathing in.
While exhaling, bring your neck back to the starting position.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Seated_Leg_Curl
Adjust the machine lever to fit your height and sit on the machine with your back against the back support pad.
Place the back of lower leg on top of padded lever (just a few inches under the calves) and secure the lap pad against your thighs, just above the knees. Then grasp the side handles on the machine as you point your toes straight (or you can also use any of the other two stances) and ensure that the legs are fully straight right in front of you. This will be your starting position.
As you exhale, pull the machine lever as far as possible to the back of your thighs by flexing at the knees. Keep your torso stationary at all times. Hold the contracted position for a second.
Slowly return to the starting position as you breathe in.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Seated_Leg_Tucks
Sit on a bench with the legs stretched out in front of you slightly below parallel and your arms holding on to the sides of the bench. Your torso should be leaning backwards around a 45-degree angle from the bench. This will be your starting position.
Bring the knees in toward you as you move your torso closer to them at the same time. Breathe out as you perform this movement.
After a second pause, go back to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Seated_One-arm_Cable_Pulley_Rows
To get into the starting position, first sit down on the machine and place your feet on the front platform or crossbar provided making sure that your knees are slightly bent and not locked.
Lean over as you keep the natural alignment of your back and grab the single handle attachment with your left arm using a palms-down grip.
With your arm extended pull back until your torso is at a 90-degree angle from your legs. Your back should be slightly arched and your chest should be sticking out. You should be feeling a nice stretch on your lat as you hold the bar in front of you. The right arm can be kept by the waist. This is the starting position of the exercise.
Keeping the torso stationary, pull the handles back towards your torso while keeping the arms close to it as you rotate the wrist, so that by the time your hand is by your abdominals it is in a neutral position (palms facing the torso). Breathe out as you perform that movement. At that point you should be squeezing your back muscles hard.
Hold that contraction for a second and slowly go back to the original position while breathing in. Tip: Remember to rotate the wrist as you go back to the starting position so that the palms are facing down again.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions and then perform the same movement with the right hand.
@Seated_One-Arm_Dumbbell_Palms-Down_Wrist_Curl
Sit on a flat bench with a dumbbell in your right hand.
Place your feet flat on the floor, at a distance that is slightly wider than shoulder width apart.
Lean forward and place your right forearm on top of your upper right thigh with your palm down. Tip: Make sure that the back of the wrist lies on top of your knees. This will be your starting position.
Lower the dumbbell as far as possible as you keep a tight grip on the dumbbell. Inhale as you perform this movement.
Now curl the dumbbell as high as possible as you contract the forearms and as you exhale. Keep the contraction for a second before you lower again. Tip: The only movement should happen at the wrist.
Perform for the recommended amount of repetitions, switch arms and repeat the movement.
@Seated_One-Arm_Dumbbell_Palms-Up_Wrist_Curl
Sit on a flat bench with a dumbbell in your right hand.
Place your feet flat on the floor, at a distance that is slightly wider than shoulder width apart.
Lean forward and place your right forearm on top of your upper right thigh with your palm up. Tip: Make sure that the front of the wrist lies on top of your knees. This will be your starting position.
Lower the dumbbell as far as possible as you keep a tight grip on the dumbbell. Inhale as you perform this movement.
Now curl the dumbbell as high as possible as you contract the forearms and as you exhale. Keep the contraction for a second before you lower again. Tip: The only movement should happen at the wrist.
Perform for the recommended amount of repetitions, switch arms and repeat the movement.
@Seated_Overhead_Stretch
Sit up straight on an exercise mat.
Touch the soles of your feet together with your feet six to eight inches in front of your hips.
Place one hand on the floor beside you and your other hand behind your head.
Lift your elbow to the ceiling as you incline your torso to the other side. Hold for 10 to 20 seconds, then switch sides.
@Seated_Palms-Down_Barbell_Wrist_Curl
Hold a barbell with both hands and your palms facing down; hands spaced about shoulder width.
Place your feet flat on the floor, at a distance that is slightly wider than shoulder width apart.
Lean forward and place your forearms on top of your upper thighs with your palms down. Tip: Make sure that the back of the wrists lay on top of your knees. This will be your starting position.
Lower the bar as far as possible while inhaling and keeping a tight grip.
Now curl bar up as high as possible while flexing the forearms and exhaling. Hold the contraction at the top for a second and Tip: Only the wrist should move.
@Seated_Palm-Up_Barbell_Wrist_Curl
Hold a barbell with both hands and your palms facing up; hands spaced about shoulder width.
Place your feet flat on the floor, at a distance that is slightly wider than shoulder width apart.
Lean forward and place your forearms on top of your upper thighs with your palms up. Tip: Make sure that the front of the wrists lay on top of your knees. This will be your starting position.
Lower the bar as far as possible while inhaling and keeping a tight grip.
Now curl bar up as high as possible while flexing the forearms and exhaling. Hold the contraction at the top for a second and Tip: Only the wrist should move.
@Seated_Side_Lateral_Raise
Pick a couple of dumbbells and sit at the end of a flat bench with your feet firmly on the floor. Hold the dumbbells with your palms facing in and your arms straight down at your sides at arms' length. This will be your starting position.
While maintaining the torso stationary (no swinging), lift the dumbbells to your side with a slight bend on the elbow and the hands slightly tilted forward as if pouring water in a glass. Continue to go up until you arms are parallel to the floor. Exhale as you execute this movement and pause for a second at the top.
Lower the dumbbells back down slowly to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Seated_Triceps_Press
Sit down on a bench with back support and grasp a dumbbell with both hands and hold it overhead at arm's length. Tip: a better way is to have somebody hand it to you especially if it is very heavy. The resistance should be resting in the palms of your hands with your thumbs around it. The palm of the hand should be facing inward. This will be your starting position.
Keeping your upper arms close to your head (elbows in) and perpendicular to the floor, lower the resistance in a semi-circular motion behind your head until your forearms touch your biceps. Tip: The upper arms should remain stationary and only the forearms should move. Breathe in as you perform this step.
Go back to the starting position by using the triceps to raise the dumbbell. Breathe out as you perform this step.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Seated_Two-Arm_Palms-Up_Low-Pulley_Wrist_Curl
Put a bench in front of a low pulley machine that has a barbell or EZ Curl attachment on it.
Move the bench far enough away so that when you bring the handle to the top of your thighs tension is created on the cable due to the weight stack being moved up.
Now hold the handle with both hands, palms up, using a shoulder-width grip.
Step back and sit on the bench with your feet about shoulder width apart, firmly on the floor.
Lean forward and place the forearms on your thighs with the back of your wrists over your knees. This will be your starting position.
Lower the bar as far as possible, while inhaling and keeping a tight grip.
Now curl the bar up as high as possible while contracting the forearms. Tip: Only the wrist should move; not the forearms.
After a second contraction at the top go back to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@See-Saw_Press_Alternating_Side_Press
Grab a dumbbell with each hand and stand up erect.
Clean (lift) the dumbbells to the chest/shoulder level and then rotate your wrists so that your palms are facing towards you as if you were getting ready to perform an Arnold Press. This will be your starting position.
Now start extending your left arm overhead as you rotate the wrist so that the palm of your hand faces forward as you go up. Your elbows should come out also as you lift the weight. Simultaneously, you will also be bending from your hip to your opposite side. Tip: If you perform the exercise correctly, is should look as if you are trying to reach for something overhead on the right hand side of your body, but with your left arm. Breathe out as you perform this movement.
Once you reach the top position breathe in. Then, with the weight fully extended overhead and you bent over to your right hand side, begin the movement to the left side.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Shotgun_Row
Attach a single handle to a low cable.
After selecting the correct weight, stand a couple feet back with a wide-split stance. Your arm should be extended and your shoulder forward. This will be your starting position.
Perform the movement by retracting the shoulder and flexing the elbow. As you pull, supinate the wrist, turning the palm upward as you go.
After a brief pause, return to the starting position.
@Shoulder_Circles
With shoulders relaxed and arms resting loosely at your sides (or in your lap if you're seated), gently roll your shoulders forward, up, back, and down.
Reverse direction. You can do this exercise alternating shoulders or both at the same time.
@Shoulder_Press_-_With_Bands
To begin, stand on an exercise band so that tension begins at arm's length. Grasp the handles and lift them so that the hands are at shoulder height at each side.
Rotate the wrists so that the palms of your hands are facing forward. Your elbows should be bent, with the upper arms and forearms in line to the torso. This is your starting position.
As you exhale, lift the handles up until your arms are fully extended overhead.
@Shoulder_Raise
Relax your arms to your sides and raise your shoulders up toward your ears, then back down.
@Shoulder_Stretch
Reach your left arm across your body and hold it straight.
@Side_Bridge

@Side_Hop-Sprint
Stand to the side of a cone or hurdle.
Begin this drill by hopping sideways over the obstacle, rebounding out of your landing to hop back to where you started.
Hop for a prescribed number or repetitions as quickly as possible, and finish this drill by sprinting a short distance upon landing the last hop.
@Side_Jackknife

@Side_Lateral_Raise
Pick a couple of dumbbells and stand with a straight torso and the dumbbells by your side at arms length with the palms of the hand facing you. This will be your starting position.
While maintaining the torso in a stationary position (no swinging), lift the dumbbells to your side with a slight bend on the elbow and the hands slightly tilted forward as if pouring water in a glass. Continue to go up until you arms are parallel to the floor. Exhale as you execute this movement and pause for a second at the top.
Lower the dumbbells back down slowly to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Side_Laterals_to_Front_Raise
In a standing position, hold a pair of dumbbells at your side. This will be your starting position.
Keeping your elbows slightly bent, raise the weights directly in front of you to shoulder height, avoiding any swinging or cheating.
At the top of the exercise move the weights out in front of you, keeping your arms extended.
Lower the weights with a controlled motion.
On the next repetition, raise the weights in front of you to shoulder height before moving the weights laterally to your sides.
Lower the weights to the starting position.
@Side_Leg_Raises
Stand next to a chair, which you may hold onto as a support. Stand on one leg. This will be your starting position.
Keeping your leg straight, raise it as far out to the side as possible, and swing it back down, allowing it to cross the opposite leg.
Repeat this swinging motion 5-10 times, increasing the range of motion as you do so.
@Side_Lying_Groin_Stretch
Start off by lying on your right side and bend your right knee in front of you to stabilize the torso.
Rest your head on your right hand or shoulder. Lift your left leg upward and hold it by the back of the knee (easier) or the foot (harder).
Pull your left knee in toward your left shoulder and simultaneously press your foot or knee down to the floor. To intensify this stretch, straighten your left leg. Switch sides.
@Side_Neck_Stretch
Start with your shoulders relaxed, gently tilt your head towards your shoulder.
Assist stretch with a gentle pull on the side of the head.
@Side_Standing_Long_Jump
Begin standing with your feet hip width apart in an athletic stance. Your head and chest should be up, knees and hips slightly bent. This will be your starting position.
Leaning to your right, extend through your hips, knees, and ankles to jump into the air. Block with the arms to lead the movement, jumping as far to your right as you can.
Land facing the same direction with your feet hip width apart, absorbing the impact through your lower body.
@Side_to_Side_Box_Shuffle
Stand to one side of the box with your left foot resting on the middle of it.
To begin, jump up and over to the other side of the box, landing with your right foot on top of the box and your left foot on the floor. Swing your arms to aid your movement.
Continue shuffling back and forth across the box.
@Side_To_Side_Chins
Grab the pull-up bar with the palms facing forward using a wide grip.
As you have both arms extended in front of you holding the bar at a wide grip, bring your torso back around 30 degrees or so while creating a curvature on your lower back and sticking your chest out. This is your starting position.
Pull your torso up while leaning to the left hand side until the bar almost touches your upper chest by drawing the shoulders and the upper arms down and back. Exhale as you perform this portion of the movement. Tip: Concentrate on squeezing the back muscles once you reach the full contracted position. The upper torso should remain stationary as it moves through space (no swinging) and only the arms should move. The forearms should do no other work other than hold the bar.
After a second of contraction, inhale as you go back to the starting position.
Now, pull your torso up while leaning to the right hand side until the bar almost touches your upper chest by drawing the shoulders and the upper arms down and back. Exhale as you perform this portion of the movement. Tip: Concentrate on squeezing the back muscles once you reach the full contracted position. The upper torso should remain stationary as it moves through space and only the arms should move. The forearms should do no other work other than hold the bar.
After a second of contraction, inhale as you go back to the starting position.
Repeat steps 3-6 until you have performed the prescribed amount of repetitions for each side.
@Side_Wrist_Pull
This stretch works best standing. Cross your left arm over the midline of your body and hold the left wrist in your right hand down at the level of your hips. Start the stretch with a bent left arm.
Slowly straighten, pull, and lift it up to shoulder height, as pictured. Feel this stretch originate in your back, not your shoulders, and don't pull too hard on the shoulders joint. Switch sides.
@Side-Lying_Floor_Stretch
First lie on your left side, bending your left knee in front of you to stabilize your torso (use your abdominal muscles as well to hold you upright).
Straighten your right leg and rest the right foot on the floor behind your left. Straighten your right arm over your head and gently pull on your right wrist to stretch the entire right side of the body. Switch sides.
@Single_Dumbbell_Raise
With a wide stance, hold a dumbell with both hands, grasping the head of the dumbbell instead of the handle. Your arms should be extended and hanging at the waist. This will be your starting position.
Raise the weight until it is above shoulder level, keeping your arms extended. Your torso and hips should remain stationary throughout the movement.
Return to the starting position and repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Single_Leg_Butt_Kick
Begin by standing on one leg, with the bent knee raised. This will be your start position.
Using a countermovement jump, take off upward by extending the hip, knee, and ankle of the grounded leg.
Immediately flex the knee and attempt to touch your butt with the heel of your jumping leg.
Return the leg to a partially bent position underneath the hips and land. Your opposite leg should stay in relatively the same position throughout the drill.
@Single_Leg_Glute_Bridge
Lay on the floor with your feet flat and knees bent.
Raise one leg off of the ground, pulling the knee to your chest. This will be your starting position.
Execute the movement by driving through the heel, extending your hip upward and raising your glutes off of the ground.
Extend as far as possible, pause and then return to the starting position.
@Single_Leg_Push-off
Stand on the ground with one foot resting on the box, heel close to the edge.
Push off with your foot on top of the box, trying to gain as much height as possible by extending through the hip and knee.
Land with the same foot on top of the box, returning your other foot back to the start position.
@Single-Arm_Cable_Crossover
Begin by moving the pulleys to the high position, select the resistance to be used, and take a handle in each hand.
Step forward in front of both pulleys with your arms extended in front of you, bringing your hands together. Your head and chest should be up as you lean forward, while your feet should be staggered. This will be your starting position.
Keeping your left arm in place, allow your right arm to extend out to the side, maintaining a slight bend at the elbow. The right arm should be perpendicular to the body at approximately shoulder level.
Return your arm back to the starting position by pulling your hand back to the midline of the body.
Hold for a second at the starting position and repeat the movement on the opposite side. Continue alternating back and forth for the prescribed number of repetitions.
@Single-Arm_Linear_Jammer
Position a bar into a landmine or securely anchor it in a corner. Load the bar to an appropriate weight.
Raise the bar from the floor, taking it to your shoulders with one or both hands. Adopt a wide stance. This will be your starting position.
Perform the movement by extending the elbow, pressing the weight up. Move explosively, extending the hips and knees fully to produce maximal force.
Return to the starting position.
@Single-Arm_Push-Up
Begin laying prone on the ground. Move yourself into a position supporting your weight on your toes and one arm. Your working arm should be placed directly under the shoulder, fully extended. Your legs should be extended, and for this movement you may need a wider base, placing your feet further apart than in a normal push-up.
Maintain good posture, and place your free hand behind your back. This will be your starting position.
Lower yourself by allowing the elbow to flex until you touch the ground.
Descend slowly, and reverse direction be extending the arm to return to the starting position.
@Single-Cone_Sprint_Drill
This drill teaches quick foot action. You need a single cone. Begin standing next to the cone with one arm back and one arm forward.
Chop the feet as quickly as possible, blocking with the arms. Circle the cone, keep your knees up, with violent foot action.
Rest after three trips around the cone.
@Single-Leg_High_Box_Squat
Position a box in a rack. Secure a band or rope in place above the box.
Standing in front of it, step onto the box to a full standing position, letting your other leg remain unsupported. Hold onto the band for balance
. Continue stepping up and down on the same leg before switching to the opposite side.
@Single-Leg_Hop_Progression
Arrange a line of cones in front of you. Assume a relaxed standing position, balanced on one leg. Raise the knee of your opposite leg. This will be your starting position.
Hop forward, jumping and landing with the same leg over the cone.
Use a countermovement jump to hop from cone to cone.
At the end, turn around and go back on the other leg.
@Single-Leg_Lateral_Hop
Stand to the side of a cone or hurdle. To get into the start position, stand on one leg with your knee slightly bent.
To begin, execute a counterjump to hop sideways over the cone.
Land on your jumping leg, and immediately rebound out of it by jumping back to the start position.
Continue hopping back and forth.
@Single-Leg_Leg_Extension
Seat yourself in the machine and adjust it so that you are positioned properly. The pad should be against the lower part of the shin but not in contact with the ankle. Adjust the seat so that the pivot point is in line with your knee. Select a weight appropriate for your abilities.
Maintaining good posture, fully extend one leg, pausing at the top of the motion.
Return to the starting position without letting the weight stop, keeping tension on the muscle.
Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
@Single-Leg_Stride_Jump
Stand to the side of a box with your inside foot on top of it, close to the edge.
Begin by swinging the arms upward as you push through the top leg, jumping upward as high as possible. Attempt to drive the opposite knee upward.
Land in the same position that you started, using your inside leg to decelerate the impact.
@Sit_Squats
Stand with your feet shoulder width apart. This will be your starting position.
Begin the movement by flexing your knees and hips, sitting back with your hips.
Continue until you have squatted a portion of the way down, but are above parallel, and quickly reverse the motion until you return to the starting position. Repeat for 5-10 repetitions.
@Sit-Up
Lie down on the floor placing your feet either under something that will not move or by having a partner hold them. Your legs should be bent at the knees.
Place your hands behind your head and lock them together by clasping your fingers. This is the starting position.
Elevate your upper body so that it creates an imaginary V-shape with your thighs. Breathe out when performing this part of the exercise.
Once you feel the contraction for a second, lower your upper body back down to the starting position while inhaling.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Skating
Roller skating is a fun activity which can be effective in improving cardiorespiratory fitness and muscular endurance. It requires relatively good balance and coordination. It is necessary to learn the basics of skating including turning and stopping and to wear protective gear to avoid possible injury.
You can skate at a comfortable pace for 30 minutes straight. If you want a cardio challenge, do interval skating — speed skate two minutes of every five minutes, using the remaining three minutes to recover. A 150 lb person will typically burn about 175 calories in 30 minutes skating at a comfortable pace, similar to brisk walking.
@Sled_Drag_-_Harness
To begin, load the sled with the desired weight and attach the pulling strap. You can pull with handles, use a harness, or attach the pulling strap to a weight belt.
Whether pulling forwards or backwards, lean in the direction of travel and progress by extending through the hips and knees.
@Sled_Overhead_Backward_Walk
Attach dual handles to a sled connected by a rope or chain. Load the sled to a light weight.
Face the sled, backing up until there is some tension in the line. Hold your hands directly above your head with your elbows extended. This will be your starting position.
Walk backwards, keeping your arms raised above your head. Avoid jerky movements.
@Sled_Overhead_Triceps_Extension
Attach dual handles to a sled using a chain or rope. Load the sled to an appropriate load.
Facing away from the sled, step away until there is tension in the line. Raise your hands above your head, keeping them together, palms facing each other. Your elbows should be pointed upward with the elbows flexed. This will be your starting position.
Extend through the elbow to straighten the arm. Ensure that your upper arm stays in position to isolate the triceps.
Upon full extension, step forward to take the slack out of the line. You may keep your feet staggered for more stability.
@Sled_Push
Load your pushing sled with the desired weight.
Take an athletic posture, leaning into the sled with your arms fully extended, grasping the handles. Push the sled as fast as possible, focusing on extending your hips and knees to strengthen your posterior chain.
@Sled_Reverse_Flye
Attach dual handles to a sled connected by a rope or chain. Load the sled to a light weight.
Face the sled, backing up until there is some tension in the line. Take both handles at arms length at about waist level. Bend the knees slightly and keep your chest and head up. This will be your starting position.
Without flexing the elbow, pull the handles upward and apart, performing a reverse fly with some external rotation. Your palms should be facing forward as you do this.
Return to the starting position, taking a couple steps back to take the slack out of the line.
@Sled_Row
Attach dual handles to a sled connected by a rope or chain. Load the sled to an appropriate weight. Face the sled, backing up until there is some tension in the line.
With a handle in each hand, bend the knees slightly, keep your head and chest up, and begin with your arms extended.
To initiate the movement, flex the elbow as you retract your shoulder blades, pulling the sled towards you.
Take a step or two back to get tension in the line and repeat.
@Sledgehammer_Swings
You will need a tire and a sledgehammer for this exercise. Stand in front of the tire about two feet away from it with a staggered stance. Grip the sledgehammer.
If you are right handed, your left hand should be at the bottom of the handle, and your right hand should be choking up closer to the head.
As you bring the sledge up, your right hand slides toward the head; as you swing down, your right hand will slide down to join your left hand. Slam it down as hard as you can against the tire. Control the bounce of the hammer off of the tire.
Repeat on the other side.
@Smith_Incline_Shoulder_Raise
Place an incline bench underneath the smith machine. Place the barbell at a height that you can reach when lying down and your arms are almost fully extended. Once the weight you need is selected, lie down on the incline bench and make sure your shoulders are aligned right under the barbell.
Using a shoulder width pronated (palms forward) grip, lift the bar from the rack and hold it straight over you with a slight bend at the elbows. This will be your starting position.
As you breathe out, lift the bar up until your arms are fully extended. Note: The contraction should be felt around the shoulders.
After a second pause, bring the bar back down to the starting position as you breathe in.
Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
When you are done, place the bar back in the rack.
@Smith_Machine_Behind_the_Back_Shrug
With the bar at thigh level, load an appropriate weight.
Stand with the bar behind you, taking a shoulder-width, pronated grip on the bar and unhook the weight. You should be standing up straight with your head and chest up and your arms extended. This will be your starting position.
Initiate the movement by shrugging your shoulders straight up. Do not flex the arms or wrist during the movement.
After a brief pause return the weight to the starting position.
Repeat for the desired number of repetitions before engaging the hooks to rack the weight.
@Smith_Machine_Bench_Press
Place a flat bench underneath the smith machine. Now place the barbell at a height that you can reach when lying down and your arms are almost fully extended. Once the weight you need is selected, lie down on the flat bench. Using a pronated grip that is wider than shoulder width, unlock the bar from the rack and hold it straight over you with your arms locked. This will be your starting position.
As you breathe in, come down slowly until you feel the bar on your middle chest.
After a second pause, bring the bar back to the starting position as you breathe out and push the bar using your chest muscles. Lock your arms in the contracted position, hold for a second and then start coming down slowly again. Tip: It should take at least twice as long to go down than to come up.
Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
When you are done, lock the bar back in the rack.
@Smith_Machine_Bent_Over_Row
Set the barbell attached to the smith machine to a height that is about 2 inches below your knees.
Bend your knees slightly and bring your torso forward, by bending at the waist, while keeping the back straight until it is almost parallel to the floor. Tip: Make sure that you keep the head up.
Now grasp the barbell using an overhand (pronated) grip and unlock it from the smith machine rack. Then let it hang directly in front of you as your arms hang extended perpendicular to the floor and your torso. This is your starting position.
While keeping the torso stationary, lift the barbell as you breathe out, keeping the elbows close to the body and not doing any force with the forearm other than holding the weights. On the top contracted position, squeeze the back muscles and hold for a second.
Slowly lower the weight again to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Smith_Machine_Calf_Raise
Place a block or weight plate below the bar on the Smith machine. Set the bar to a position that best matches your height. Once the correct height is chosen and the bar is loaded, step onto the plates with the balls of your feet and place the bar on the back of your shoulders.
Take the bar with both hands facing forward. Rotate the bar to unrack it. This will be your starting position.
Raise your heels as high as possible by pushing off of the balls of your feet, flexing your calf at the top of the contraction. Your knees should remain extended. Hold the contracted position for a second before you start to go back down.
Return slowly to the starting position as you breathe in while lowering your heels.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Smith_Machine_Close-Grip_Bench_Press
Place a flat bench underneath the smith machine. Place the barbell at a height that you can reach when lying down and your arms are almost fully extended. Once the weight you need is selected, lie down on the flat bench. Using a close and pronated grip (palms facing forward) that is around shoulder width, unlock the bar from the rack and hold it straight over you with your arms locked. This will be your starting position.
As you breathe in, come down slowly until you feel the bar on your middle chest. Tip: Make sure that as opposed to a regular bench press, you keep the elbows close to the torso at all times in order to maximize triceps involvement.
After a second pause, bring the bar back to the starting position as you breathe out and push the bar using your triceps muscles. Lock your arms in the contracted position, hold for a second and then start coming down slowly again. Tip: It should take at least twice as long to go down than to come up.
Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
When you are done, lock the bar back in the rack.
@Smith_Machine_Decline_Press
Position a decline bench in the rack so that the bar will be above your chest. Load an appropriate weight and take your place on the bench.
Rotate the bar to unhook it from the rack and fully extend your arms. Your back should be slightly arched and your shoulder blades retracted. This will be your starting position.
Begin the movement by flexing your arms, lowering the bar to your chest.
Pause briefly, and then extend your arms to push the weight back to the starting position.
After completing the desired number of repetitions, rotate the bar to rack the weight.
@Smith_Machine_Hang_Power_Clean
Position the bar at knee height and load it to an appropriate weight.
Take a pronated grip on the bar outside of shoulder width and unhook the bar from the machine. Your arms should be fully extended with your head and chest up. Your elbows should be pointed out with your shoulders back and down. Your hips should be back, loading the tension into the hamstrings. This will be your starting position.
Initate the movement by forcefully extending the hips and knees, accelerating into the bar. Ensure that you keep your arms straight during this part of the motion.
Upon full extension, rebend the hips and knees to lower your receiving position.
Allow the arms to flex at this point, rotating the elbows around the bar to receive it on your shoulders.
Extend through the hips and knees to come to a standing position with the bar racked on your shoulders to complete the movement.
@Smith_Machine_Hip_Raise
Position a bench in the rack and load the bar to an appropriate weight. Lie down on the bench, placing the bottom of your feet against the bar. Unlock the bar and extend your legs. You may need to use your hands to assist you. For added stability grasp the sides of the Smith Machine. This will be your starting position.
Initiate the movement by rotating your pelvis, flexing your spine to raise your hips off of the bench. Maintain a slight bend in the knees throughout the motion.
After a brief pause, return the hips to the bench.
Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
@Smith_Machine_Incline_Bench_Press
Place an incline bench underneath the smith machine. Place the barbell at a height that you can reach when lying down and your arms are almost fully extended. Once the weight you need is selected, lie down on the incline bench and make sure your upper chest is aligned with the barbell. Using a pronated grip (palms facing forward) that is wider than shoulder width, unlock the bar from the rack and hold it straight over you with your arms locked. This will be your starting position.
As you breathe in, come down slowly until you feel the bar on your upper chest.
After a second pause, bring the bar back to the starting position as you breathe out and push the bar using your chest muscles. Lock your arms in the contracted position, hold for a second and then start coming down slowly again. Tip: It should take at least twice as long to go down than to come up.
Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
When you are done, place the bar back in the rack.
@Smith_Machine_Leg_Press
Position a Smith machine bar a couple feet off of the ground. Ensure that it is resting on the safeties. After loading the bar to an appropriate weight, lie underneath the bar. Place the middle of your feet on the bar, tucking your knees to your chest. This will be your starting position.
Begin the movement by driving through your feet to move the bar upward, extending the hips and knees. Do not lock out your knees.
At the top of the motion, pause briefly before returning to the starting position.
@Smith_Machine_One-Arm_Upright_Row
With the bar at thigh level, load an appropriate weight.
Take a wide grip on the bar and unhook the weight, removing your off hand from the bar. Your arm should be extended as you stand up straight with your head and chest up. This will be your starting position.
Begin the movement by flexing the elbow, raising the upper arm with the elbow pointed out. Continue until your upper arm is parallel to the floor.
After a brief pause, return the weight to the starting position.
Repeat for the desired number of repetitions before engaging the hooks to rack the weight.
@Smith_Machine_Overhead_Shoulder_Press
To begin, place a flat bench (or preferably one with back support) underneath a smith machine. Position the barbell at a height so that when seated on the flat bench, the arms must be almost fully extended to reach the barbell.
Once you have the correct height, sit slightly in behind the barbell so that there is an imaginary straight line from the tip of your nose to the barbell. Your feet should be stationary. Grab the barbell with the palms facing forward, unlock it and lift it up so that your arms are fully extended. This is the starting position.
Slowly begin to lower the barbell until it is level with your chin while inhaling.
Then lift the barbell back to the starting position using your shoulders while exhaling.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Smith_Machine_Pistol_Squat
To begin, first set the bar to a position that best matches your height. Step under it and position the bar across the back of your shoulders.
Take the bar with your hands facing forward, unlock it and lift it off the rack by extending your legs. 3
Move one foot forward about 12 inches in front of the bar. Extend the other leg out in front of you, holding it off the ground. Look forward at all times and maintain a neutral or slightly arched spine. This will be your starting position.
Maintaining good posture, lower yourself by flexing the knee and hip, going down as far as flexibility allows.
Pause briefly at the bottom and then return to the starting position by driving through the heel of your foot, extending the knee and hip.
@Smith_Machine_Reverse_Calf_Raises
Adjust the barbell on the smith machine to fit your height and align a raised platform right under the bar.
Stand on the platform with the heels of your feet secured on top of it with the balls of your feet extending off it. Position your toes facing forward with a shoulder width stance.
Now, place your shoulders under the barbell while maintaining the foot positioning described and push the barbell up by extending your hips and knees until your torso is standing erect. The knees should be kept with a slight bend; never locked. This will be your starting position. Tip: The barbell on your back is only for balance purposes.
Raise the balls of your feet as you breathe out by extending your toes as high as possible and flexing your calf. Ensure that the knee is kept stationary at all times. There should be no bending at any time. Hold the contracted position for a second before you start to go back down.
Slowly go back down to the starting position as you breathe in by lowering the balls of your feet and toes.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Smith_Machine_Squat
To begin, first set the bar on the height that best matches your height. Once the correct height is chosen and the bar is loaded, step under the bar and place the back of your shoulders (slightly below the neck) across it.
Hold on to the bar using both arms at each side (palms facing forward), unlock it and lift it off the rack by first pushing with your legs and at the same time straightening your torso.
Position your legs using a shoulder width medium stance with the toes slightly pointed out. Keep your head up at all times and also maintain a straight back. This will be your starting position. (Note: For the purposes of this discussion we will use the medium stance which targets overall development; however you can choose any of the three stances discussed in the foot stances section).
Begin to slowly lower the bar by bending the knees as you maintain a straight posture with the head up. Continue down until the angle between the upper leg and the calves becomes slightly less than 90-degrees (which is the point in which the upper legs are below parallel to the floor). Inhale as you perform this portion of the movement. Tip: If you performed the exercise correctly, the front of the knees should make an imaginary straight line with the toes that is perpendicular to the front. If your knees are past that imaginary line (if they are past your toes) then you are placing undue stress on the knee and the exercise has been performed incorrectly.
Begin to raise the bar as you exhale by pushing the floor with the heel of your foot as you straighten the legs again and go back to the starting position.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Smith_Machine_Stiff-Legged_Deadlift
To begin, set the bar on the smith machine to a height that is around the middle of your thighs. Once the correct height is chosen and the bar is loaded, grasp the bar using a pronated (palms forward) grip that is shoulder width apart. You may need some wrist wraps if using a significant amount of weight.
Lift the bar up by fully extending your arms while keeping your back straight. Stand with your torso straight and your legs spaced using a shoulder width or narrower stance. The knees should be slightly bent. This is your starting position.
Keeping the knees stationary, lower the barbell to over the top of your feet by bending at the waist while keeping your back straight. Keep moving forward as if you were going to pick something from the floor until you feel a stretch on the hamstrings. Exhale as you perform this movement
Start bringing your torso up straight again as soon as you feel the hamstrings stretch by extending your hips and waist until you are back at the starting position. Inhale as you perform this movement.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Smith_Machine_Upright_Row
To begin, set the bar on the smith machine to a height that is around the middle of your thighs. Once the correct height is chosen and the bar is loaded, grasp the bar using a pronated (palms forward) grip that is shoulder width apart. You may need some wrist wraps if using a significant amount of weight.
Lift the barbell up and fully extend your arms with your back straight. There should be a slight bend at the elbows. This is the starting position.
Use your side shoulders to lift the bar as you exhale. The bar should be close to the body as you move it up. Continue to lift it until it nearly touches your chin. Tip: Your elbows should drive the motion. As you lift the bar, your elbows should always be higher than your forearms. Also, keep your torso stationary and pause for a second at the top of the movement.
Lower the bar back down slowly to the starting position. Inhale as you perform this portion of the movement.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Smith_Single-Leg_Split_Squat
To begin, place a flat bench 2-3 feet behind the smith machine. Then, set the bar on the height that best matches your height. Once the correct height is chosen and the bar is loaded, step under the bar and place the back of your shoulders (slightly below the neck) across it.
Hold on to the bar using both arms at each side (palms facing forward), unlock it and lift it off the rack by first pushing with your legs and at the same time straightening your torso.
Position your legs by placing one foot slightly forward under the bar and extending your other leg back and place the top of your foot on the bench. This will be your starting position
Begin to slowly lower the bar by bending the knee as you maintain a straight posture with the head up. Continue down until the angle between the upper leg and the calf becomes slightly less than 90-degrees (which is the point in which the upper legs are below parallel to the floor). Inhale as you perform this portion of the movement. Tip: If you performed the exercise correctly, the front of the knee should make an imaginary straight line with the toes that is perpendicular to the front. If your knee is past that imaginary line (if it is past your toes) then you are placing undue stress on the knee and the exercise has been performed incorrectly.
Begin to raise the bar as you exhale by pushing the floor with the heel of your foot mainly as you straighten your leg again and go back to the starting position.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
Switch legs and repeat the movement.
@Snatch
Place your feet at a shoulder width stance with the barbell resting right above the connection between the toes and the rest of the foot.
With a palms facing down grip, bend at the knees and keeping the back flat grab the bar using a wider than shoulder width grip. Bring the hips down and make sure that your body drops as if you were going to sit on a chair. This will be your starting position.
Start pushing the floor as if it were a moving platform with your feet and simultaneously start lifting the barbell keeping it close to your legs.
As the bar reaches the middle of your thighs, push the floor with your legs and lift your body to a complete extension in an explosive motion.
Lift your shoulders back in a shrugging movement as you bring the bar up while lifting your elbows out to the side and keeping them above the bar for as long as possible.
Now in a very quick but powerful motion, you have to get your body under the barbell when it has reached a high enough point where it can be controlled and drop while locking your arms and holding the barbell overhead as you assume a squat position.
Finalize the movement by rising up out of the squat position to finish the lift. At the end of the lift both feet should be on line and the arms fully extended holding the barbell overhead.
@Snatch_Balance
Begin with the feet in the pulling position, the bar racked across the back of the shoulders, and the hands placed in a wide snatch grip.
Pop the bar with an abrupt dip and drive of the knees, and aggressively drive under the bar, transitioning the feet into the receiving position.
Receive the bar locked out overhead near the bottom of the squat. The torso should remain vertical, lowering the hips between the legs.
Continue to descend to full depth, and return to a standing position. Carefully lower the weight.