@Chin-Up
Grab the pull-up bar with the palms facing your torso and a grip closer than the shoulder width.
As you have both arms extended in front of you holding the bar at the chosen grip width, keep your torso as straight as possible while creating a curvature on your lower back and sticking your chest out. This is your starting position. Tip: Keeping the torso as straight as possible maximizes biceps stimulation while minimizing back involvement.
As you breathe out, pull your torso up until your head is around the level of the pull-up bar. Concentrate on using the biceps muscles in order to perform the movement. Keep the elbows close to your body. Tip: The upper torso should remain stationary as it moves through space and only the arms should move. The forearms should do no other work other than hold the bar.
After a second of squeezing the biceps in the contracted position, slowly lower your torso back to the starting position; when your arms are fully extended. Breathe in as you perform this portion of the movement.
Repeat this motion for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
@Circus_Bell
The circus bell is an oversized dumbbell with a thick handle. Begin with the dumbbell between your feet, and grip the handle with both hands.
Clean the dumbbell by extending through your hips and knees to deliver the implement to the desired shoulder, letting go with the extra hand.
Ensure that you get one of the dumbbell heads behind the shoulder to keep from being thrown off balance. To raise it overhead, dip by flexing the knees, and the drive upwards as you extend the dumbbell overhead, leaning slightly away from it as you do so.
Carefully guide the bell back to the floor, keeping it under control as much as possible. It is best to perform this event on a thick rubber mat to prevent damage to the floor.
@Clean
With a barbell on the floor close to the shins, take an overhand (or hook) grip just outside the legs. Lower your hips with the weight focused on the heels, back straight, head facing forward, chest up, with your shoulders just in front of the bar. This will be your starting position.

Begin the first pull by driving through the heels, extending your knees. Your back angle should stay the same, and your arms should remain straight. Move the weight with control as you continue to above the knees.
Next comes the second pull, the main source of acceleration for the clean. As the bar approaches the mid-thigh position, begin extending through the hips. In a jumping motion, accelerate by extending the hips, knees, and ankles, using speed to move the bar upward. There should be no need to actively pull through the arms to accelerate the weight; at the end of the second pull, the body should be fully extended, leaning slightly back, with the arms still extended.
As full extension is achieved, transition into the third pull by aggressively shrugging and flexing the arms with the elbows up and out. At peak extension, aggressively pull yourself down, rotating your elbows under the bar as you do so. Receive the bar in a front squat position, the depth of which is dependent upon the height of the bar at the end of the third pull. The bar should be racked onto the protracted shoulders, lightly touching the throat with the hands relaxed. Continue to descend to the bottom squat position, which will help in the recovery.
Immediately recover by driving through the heels, keeping the torso upright and elbows up. Continue until you have risen to a standing position.
@Clean_and_Jerk
With a barbell on the floor close to the shins, take an overhand or hook grip just outside the legs. Lower your hips with the weight focused on the heels, back straight, head facing forward, chest up, with your shoulders just in front of the bar. This will be your starting position.
Begin the first pull by driving through the heels, extending your knees. Your back angle should stay the same, and your arms should remain straight. Move the weight with control as you continue to above the knees.
Next comes the second pull, the main source of acceleration for the clean. As the bar approaches the mid-thigh position, begin extending through the hips. In a jumping motion, accelerate by extending the hips, knees, and ankles, using speed to move the bar upward. There should be no need to actively pull through the arms to accelerate the weight; at the end of the second pull, the body should be fully extended, leaning slightly back, with the arms still extended.
As full extension is achieved, transition into the third pull by aggressively shrugging and flexing the arms with the elbows up and out. At peak extension, aggressively pull yourself down, rotating your elbows under the bar as you do so. Receive the bar in a front squat position, the depth of which is dependent upon the height of the bar at the end of the third pull. The bar should be racked onto the protracted shoulders, lightly touching the throat with the hands relaxed. Continue to descend to the bottom squat position, which will help in the recovery.
Immediately recover by driving through the heels, keeping the torso upright and elbows up. Continue until you have risen to a standing position.
The second phase is the jerk, which raises the weight overhead. Standing with the weight racked on the front of the shoulders, begin with the dip. With your feet directly under your hips, flex the knees without moving the hips backward. Go down only slightly, and reverse direction as powerfully as possible.
Drive through the heels create as much speed and force as possible, and be sure to move your head out of the way as the bar leaves the shoulders.
At this moment as the feet leave the floor, the feet must be placed into the receiving position as quickly as possible. In the brief moment the feet are not actively driving against the platform, the athletes effort to push the bar up will drive them down. The feet should be split, with one foot forward, and one foot back. Receive the bar with the arms locked out overhead. Return to a standing position.
@Clean_and_Press
Assume a shoulder-width stance, with knees inside the arms. Now while keeping the back flat, bend at the knees and hips so that you can grab the bar with the arms fully extended and a pronated grip that is slightly wider than shoulder width. Point the elbows out to sides. The bar should be close to the shins. Position the shoulders over or slightly ahead of the bar. Establish a flat back posture. This will be your starting position.
Begin to pull the bar by extending the knees. Move your hips forward and raise the shoulders at the same rate while keeping the angle of the back constant; continue to lift the bar straight up while keeping it close to your body.
As the bar passes the knee, extend at the ankles, knees, and hips forcefully, similar to a jumping motion. As you do so, continue to guide the bar with your hands, shrugging your shoulders and using the momentum from your movement to pull the bar as high as possible. The bar should travel close to your body, and you should keep your elbows out.
At maximum elevation, your feet should clear the floor and you should start to pull yourself under the bar. The mechanics of this could change slightly, depending on the weight used. You should descend into a squatting position as you pull yourself under the bar.
As the bar hits terminal height, rotate your elbows around and under the bar. Rack the bar across the front of the shoulders while keeping the torso erect and flexing the hips and knees to absorb the weight of the bar.
Stand to full height, holding the bar in the clean position.
Without moving your feet, press the bar overhead as you exhale. Lower the bar under control .
@Clean_Deadlift
Begin standing with a barbell close to your shins. Your feet should be directly under your hips with your feet turned out slightly. Grip the bar with a double overhand grip or hook grip, about shoulder width apart. Squat down to the bar. Your spine should be in full extension, with a back angle that places your shoulders in front of the bar and your back as vertical as possible.
Begin by driving through the floor through the front of your heels. As the bar travels upward, maintain a constant back angle. Flare your knees out to the side to help keep them out of the bar's path.
After the bar crosses the knees, complete the lift by driving the hips into the bar until your hips and knees are extended.
@Clean_from_Blocks
With a barbell on boxes or stands of the desired height, take an overhand or hook grip just outside the legs. Lower your hips with the weight focused on the heels, back straight, head facing forward, chest up, with your shoulders just in front of the bar. This will be your starting position.
Begin the first pull by driving through the heels, extending your knees. Your back angle should stay the same, and your arms should remain straight with the elbows pointed out.
As full extension is achieved, transition into the receiving position by aggressively shrugging and flexing the arms with the elbows up and out. Aggressively pull yourself down, rotating your elbows under the bar as you do so. Receive the bar in a front squat position, the depth of which is dependent upon the height of the bar at the end of the third pull. The bar should be racked onto the protracted shoulders, lightly touching the throat with the hands relaxed. Continue to descend to the bottom squat position, which will help in the recovery.
Immediately recover by driving through the heels, keeping the torso upright and elbows up. Continue until you have risen to a standing position. Return the weight to the boxes for the next rep.
@Clean_Pull
With a barbell on the floor close to the shins, take an overhand or hook grip just outside the legs. Lower your hips with the weight focused on the heels, back straight, head facing forward, chest up, with your shoulders just in front of the bar. This will be your starting position.
Begin the first pull by driving through the heels, extending your knees. Your back angle should stay the same, and your arms should remain straight and elbows out. Move the weight with control as you continue to above the knees.
Next comes the second pull, the main source of acceleration for the clean. As the bar approaches the mid-thigh position, begin extending through the hips. In a jumping motion, accelerate by extending the hips, knees, and ankles, using speed to move the bar upward. There should be no need to actively pull through the arms to accelerate the weight; at the end of the second pull, the body should be fully extended, leaning slightly back, with the arms still extended. Full extension should be violent and abrupt, and ensure that you do not prolong the extension for longer than necessary.
@Clean_Shrug
Begin with a shoulder width, double overhand or hook grip, with the bar hanging at the mid thigh position. Your back should be straight and inclined slightly forward.
Shrug your shoulders towards your ears. While this exercise can usually by loaded with heavier weight than a clean, avoid overloading to the point that the execution slows down.
@Clock_Push-Up
Move into a prone position on the floor, supporting your weight on your hands and toes.
Your arms should be fully extended with the hands around shoulder width. Keep your body straight throughout the movement. This will be your starting position.
Descend by flexing at the elbow, lowering your chest toward the ground.
At the bottom, reverse the motion by pushing yourself up through elbow extension as quickly as possible until you are air borne. Aim to "jump" 12-18 inches to one side.
As you accelerate up, move your outside foot away from your direction of travel. Leaving the ground, shift your body about 30 degrees for the next repetition.
Return to the starting position and repeat the exercise, working all the way around until you are back where you started.
@Close-Grip_Barbell_Bench_Press
Lie back on a flat bench. Using a close grip (around shoulder width), lift the bar from the rack and hold it straight over you with your arms locked. This will be your starting position.
As you breathe in, come down slowly until you feel the bar on your middle chest. Tip: Make sure that - as opposed to a regular bench press - you keep the elbows close to the torso at all times in order to maximize triceps involvement.
After a second pause, bring the bar back to the starting position as you breathe out and push the bar using your triceps muscles. Lock your arms in the contracted position, hold for a second and then start coming down slowly again. Tip: It should take at least twice as long to go down than to come up.
Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
When you are done, place the bar back in the rack.
@Close-Grip_Dumbbell_Press
Place a dumbbell standing up on a flat bench.
Ensuring that the dumbbell stays securely placed at the top of the bench, lie perpendicular to the bench with only your shoulders lying on the surface. Hips should be below the bench and your legs bent with your feet firmly on the floor.
Grasp the dumbbell with both hands and hold it straight over your chest at arm's length. Both palms should be pressing against the underside of the sides of the dumbbell. This will be your starting position.
Initiate the movement by lowering the dumbbell to your chest.
Return to the starting position by extending the elbows.
@Close-Grip_EZ_Bar_Curl
Stand up with your torso upright while holding an E-Z Curl Bar at the closer inner handle. The palm of your hands should be facing forward and they should be slightly tilted inwards due to the shape of the bar. The elbows should be close to the torso. This will be your starting position.
While holding the upper arms stationary, curl the weights forward while contracting the biceps as you breathe out. Tip: Only the forearms should move.
Continue the movement until your biceps are fully contracted and the bar is at shoulder level. Hold the contracted position for a second and squeeze the biceps hard.
Slowly begin to bring the bar back to starting position as your breathe in.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Close-Grip_EZ-Bar_Curl_with_Band
Attach a band to each end of the bar. Take the bar, placing a foot on the middle of the band. Stand upright with a narrow, supinated grip on the EZ bar. The elbows should be close to the torso. This will be your starting position.
While keeping the upper arms in place, flex the elbows to execute the curl. Exhale as the weight is lifted.
Continue the movement until your biceps are fully contracted and the bar is at shoulder level. Hold the contracted position for a second and squeeze the biceps hard.
Slowly begin to bring the bar back to starting position as your breathe in.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Close-Grip_EZ-Bar_Press
Lie on a flat bench with an EZ bar loaded to an appropriate weight.
Using a narrow grip lift the bar and hold it straight over your torso with your elbows in. The arms should be perpendicular to the floor. This will be your starting position.
Now lower the bar down to your lower chest as you breathe in. Keep the elbows in as you perform this movement.
Using the triceps to push the bar back up, press it back to the starting position by extending the elbows as you exhale.
Repeat.
@Close-Grip_Front_Lat_Pulldown
Sit down on a pull-down machine with a wide bar attached to the top pulley. Make sure that you adjust the knee pad of the machine to fit your height. These pads will prevent your body from being raised by the resistance attached to the bar.
Grab the bar with the palms facing forward using the prescribed grip. Note on grips: For a wide grip, your hands need to be spaced out at a distance wider than your shoulder width. For a medium grip, your hands need to be spaced out at a distance equal to your shoulder width and for a close grip at a distance smaller than your shoulder width.
As you have both arms extended in front of you - while holding the bar at the chosen grip width - bring your torso back around 30 degrees or so while creating a curvature on your lower back and sticking your chest out. This is your starting position.
As you breathe out, bring the bar down until it touches your upper chest by drawing the shoulders and the upper arms down and back. Tip: Concentrate on squeezing the back muscles once you reach the full contracted position. The upper torso should remain stationary (only the arms should move). The forearms should do no other work except for holding the bar; therefore do not try to pull the bar down using the forearms.
After a second in the contracted position, while squeezing your shoulder blades together, slowly raise the bar back to the starting position when your arms are fully extended and the lats are fully stretched. Inhale during this portion of the movement.
6. Repeat this motion for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
@Close-Grip_Push-Up_off_of_a_Dumbbell
Lie on the floor and place your hands on an upright dumbbell. Supporting your weight on your toes and hands, keep your torso rigid and your elbows in with your arms straight. This will be your starting position.
Lower your body, allowing the elbows to flex while you inhale. Keep your body straight, not allowing your hips to rise or sag.
Press yourself back up to the starting position by extending the elbows. Breathe out as you perform this step.
After a pause at the contracted position, repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
@Close-Grip_Standing_Barbell_Curl
Hold a barbell with both hands, palms up and a few inches apart.
Stand with your torso straight and your head up. Your feet should be about shoulder width and your elbows close to your torso. This will be your starting position. Tip: You will keep your upper arms and elbows stationary throughout the movement.
Curl the bar up in a semicircular motion until the forearms touch your biceps. Exhale as you perform this portion of the movement and contract your biceps hard for a second at the top. Tip: Avoid bending the back or using swinging motions as you lift the weight. Only the forearms should move.
Slowly go back down to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Cocoons
Begin by lying on your back on the ground. Your legs should be straight and your arms extended behind your head. This will be your starting position.
To perform the movement, tuck the knees toward your chest, rotating your pelvis to lift your glutes from the floor. As you do so, flex the spine, bringing your arms back over your head to perform a simultaneous crunch motion.
After a brief pause, return to the starting position.
@Conans_Wheel
With the weight loaded, take a zurcher hold on the end of the implement. Place the bar in the crook of the elbow and hold onto your wrist. Try to keep the weight off of the forearms.
Begin by lifting the weight from the ground. Keep a tight, upright posture as you being to walk, taking short, fast steps. Look up and away as you turn in a circle. Do not hold your breath during the event. Continue walking until you complete one or more complete turns.
@Concentration_Curls
Sit down on a flat bench with one dumbbell in front of you between your legs. Your legs should be spread with your knees bent and feet on the floor.
Use your right arm to pick the dumbbell up. Place the back of your right upper arm on the top of your inner right thigh. Rotate the palm of your hand until it is facing forward away from your thigh. Tip: Your arm should be extended and the dumbbell should be above the floor. This will be your starting position.
While holding the upper arm stationary, curl the weights forward while contracting the biceps as you breathe out. Only the forearms should move. Continue the movement until your biceps are fully contracted and the dumbbells are at shoulder level. Tip: At the top of the movement make sure that the little finger of your arm is higher than your thumb. This guarantees a good contraction. Hold the contracted position for a second as you squeeze the biceps.
Slowly begin to bring the dumbbells back to starting position as your breathe in. Caution: Avoid swinging motions at any time.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions. Then repeat the movement with the left arm.
@Cross_Body_Hammer_Curl
Stand up straight with a dumbbell in each hand. Your hands should be down at your side with your palms facing in.
While keeping your palms facing in and without twisting your arm, curl the dumbbell of the right arm up towards your left shoulder as you exhale. Touch the top of the dumbbell to your shoulder and hold the contraction for a second.
Slowly lower the dumbbell along the same path as you inhale and then repeat the same movement for the left arm.
Continue alternating in this fashion until the recommended amount of repetitions is performed for each arm.
@Cross_Over_-_With_Bands
Secure an exercise band around a stationary post.
While facing away from the post, grab the handles on both ends of the band and step forward enough to create tension on the band.
Raise your arms to the sides, parallel to the floor, perpendicular to your torso (your torso and the arms should resemble the letter "T") and with the palms facing forward. Have them extended with a slight bend at the elbows. This will be your starting position.
While keeping your arms straight, bring them across your chest in a semicircular motion to the front as you exhale and flex your pecs. Hold the contraction for a second.
Slowly return to the starting position as you inhale.
Perform for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Cross-Body_Crunch
Lie flat on your back and bend your knees about 60 degrees.
Keep your feet flat on the floor and place your hands loosely behind your head. This will be your starting position.
Now curl up and bring your right elbow and shoulder across your body while bring your left knee in toward your left shoulder at the same time. Reach with your elbow and try to touch your knee. Exhale as you perform this movement. Tip: Try to bring your shoulder up towards your knee rather than just your elbow and remember that the key is to contract the abs as you perform the movement; not just to move the elbow.
Now go back down to the starting position as you inhale and repeat with the left elbow and the right knee.
Continue alternating in this manner until all prescribed repetitions are done.
@Crossover_Reverse_Lunge
Stand with your feet shoulder width apart. This will be your starting position.
Perform a rear lunge by stepping back with one foot and flexing the hips and front knee. As you do so, rotate your torso across the front leg.
After a brief pause, return to the starting position and repeat on the other side, continuing in an alternating fashion.
@Crucifix
In the crucifix, you statically hold weights out to the side for time. While the event can be practiced using dumbbells, it is best to practice with one of the various implements used, such as axes and hammers, as it feels different.
Begin standing, and raise your arms out to the side holding the implements. Your arms should be parallel to the ground. In competition, judges or sensors are used to let you know when you break parallel. Hold for as long as you can. Typically, the weights should be heavy enough that you fail in 30-60 seconds.
@Crunch_-_Hands_Overhead
Lie on the floor with your back flat and knees bent with around a 60-degree angle between the hamstrings and the calves.
Keep your feet flat on the floor and stretch your arms overhead with your palms crossed. This will be your starting position.
Curl your upper body forward and bring your shoulder blades just off the floor. At all times, keep your arms aligned with your head, neck and shoulder. Don't move them forward from that position. Exhale as you perform this portion of the movement and hold the contraction for a second.
Slowly lower down to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Crunch_-_Legs_On_Exercise_Ball
Lie flat on your back with your feet resting on an exercise ball and your knees bent at a 90 degree angle.
Place your feet three to four inches apart and point your toes inward so they touch.
Place your hands lightly on either side of your head keeping your elbows in. Tip: Don't lock your fingers behind your head.
Push the small of your back down in the floor in order to better isolate your abdominal muscles. This will be your starting position.
Begin to roll your shoulders off the floor and continue to push down as hard as you can with your lower back. Your shoulders should come up off the floor only about four inches, and your lower back should remain on the floor. Breathe out as you execute this portion of the movement. Squeeze your abdominals hard at the top of the contraction and hold for a second. Tip: Focus on a slow, controlled movement. Refrain from using momentum at any time.
Slowly go back down to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Crunches
Lie flat on your back with your feet flat on the ground, or resting on a bench with your knees bent at a 90 degree angle. If you are resting your feet on a bench, place them three to four inches apart and point your toes inward so they touch.
Now place your hands lightly on either side of your head keeping your elbows in. Tip: Don't lock your fingers behind your head.
While pushing the small of your back down in the floor to better isolate your abdominal muscles, begin to roll your shoulders off the floor.
Continue to push down as hard as you can with your lower back as you contract your abdominals and exhale. Your shoulders should come up off the floor only about four inches, and your lower back should remain on the floor. At the top of the movement, contract your abdominals hard and keep the contraction for a second. Tip: Focus on slow, controlled movement - don't cheat yourself by using momentum.
After the one second contraction, begin to come down slowly again to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Cuban_Press
Take a dumbbell in each hand with a pronated grip in a standing position. Raise your upper arms so that they are parallel to the floor, allowing your lower arms to hang in the "scarecrow" position. This will be your starting position.
To initiate the movement, externally rotate the shoulders to move the upper arm 180 degrees. Keep the upper arms in place, rotating the upper arms until the wrists are directly above the elbows, the forearms perpendicular to the floor.
Now press the dumbbells by extending at the elbows, straightening your arms overhead.
Return to the starting position as you breathe in by reversing the steps.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Dancers_Stretch
Sit up on the floor.
Cross your right leg over your left, keeping the knee bent. Your left leg is straight and down on the floor.
Place your left arm on your right leg and your right hand on the floor.
Rotate your upper body to the right, and hold for 10-20 seconds. Switch sides.
@Dead_Bug
Begin lying on your back with your hands extended above you toward the ceiling.
Bring your feet, knees, and hips up to 90 degrees.
Exhale hard to bring your ribcage down and flatten your back onto the floor, rotating your pelvis up and squeezing your glutes. Hold this position throughout the movement. This will be your starting position.
Initiate the exercise by extending one leg, straightening the knee and hip to bring the leg just above the ground.
Maintain the position of your lumbar and pelvis as you perform the movement, as your back is going to want to arch.
Stay tight and return the working leg to the starting position.
Repeat on the opposite side, alternating until the set is complete.
@Deadlift_with_Bands
To deadlift with short bands, simply loop them over the bar before you start, and step into them to set up. For long bands, they will need to be anchored to a secure base, such as heavy dumbbells or a rack.
With your feet, and your grip set, take a big breath and then lower your hips and bend the knees until your shins contact the bar. Look forward with your head, keep your chest up and your back arched, and begin driving through the heels to move the weight upward. After the bar passes the knees, aggressively pull the bar back, pulling your shoulder blades together as you drive your hips forward into the bar.
Lower the bar by bending at the hips and guiding it to the floor.
@Deadlift_with_Chains
You can attach the chains to the sleeves of the bar, or just drape the middle over the bar so there is a greater weight increase as you lift.
Approach the bar so that it is centered over your feet. You feet should be about hip width apart. Bend at the hip to grip the bar at shoulder width, allowing your shoulder blades to protract. Typically, you would use an overhand grip or an over/under grip on heavier sets. With your feet, and your grip set, take a big breath and then lower your hips and bend the knees until your shins contact the bar.
Look forward with your head, keep your chest up and your back arched, and begin driving through the heels to move the weight upward. After the bar passes the knees, aggressively pull the bar back, pulling your shoulder blades together as you drive your hips forward into the bar.
Lower the bar by bending at the hips and guiding it to the floor.
@Decline_Barbell_Bench_Press
Secure your legs at the end of the decline bench and slowly lay down on the bench.
Using a medium width grip (a grip that creates a 90-degree angle in the middle of the movement between the forearms and the upper arms), lift the bar from the rack and hold it straight over you with your arms locked. The arms should be perpendicular to the floor. This will be your starting position. Tip: In order to protect your rotator cuff, it is best if you have a spotter help you lift the barbell off the rack.
As you breathe in, come down slowly until you feel the bar on your lower chest.
After a second pause, bring the bar back to the starting position as you breathe out and push the bar using your chest muscles. Lock your arms and squeeze your chest in the contracted position, hold for a second and then start coming down slowly again. Tip: It should take at least twice as long to go down than to come up).
Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
When you are done, place the bar back in the rack.
@Decline_Close-Grip_Bench_To_Skull_Crusher
Secure your legs at the end of the decline bench and slowly lay down on the bench.
Using a close grip (a grip that is slightly less than shoulder width), lift the bar from the rack and hold it straight over you with your arms locked and elbows in. The arms should be perpendicular to the floor. This will be your starting position. Tip: In order to protect your rotator cuff, it is best if you have a spotter help you lift the barbell off the rack.
Now lower the bar down to your lower chest as you breathe in. Keep the elbows in as you perform this movement.
Using the triceps to push the bar back up, press it back to the starting position as you exhale.
As you breathe in and you keep the upper arms stationary, bring the bar down slowly by moving your forearms in a semicircular motion towards you until you feel the bar slightly touch your forehead. Breathe in as you perform this portion of the movement.
Lift the bar back to the starting position by contracting the triceps and exhaling.
Repeat steps 3-6 until the recommended amount of repetitions is performed.
@Decline_Crunch
Secure your legs at the end of the decline bench and lie down.
Now place your hands lightly on either side of your head keeping your elbows in. Tip: Don't lock your fingers behind your head.
While pushing the small of your back down in the bench to better isolate your abdominal muscles, begin to roll your shoulders off it.
Continue to push down as hard as you can with your lower back as you contract your abdominals and exhale. Your shoulders should come up off the bench only about four inches, and your lower back should remain on the bench. At the top of the movement, contract your abdominals hard and keep the contraction for a second. Tip: Focus on slow, controlled movement - don't cheat yourself by using momentum.
After the one second contraction, begin to come down slowly again to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Decline_Dumbbell_Bench_Press
Secure your legs at the end of the decline bench and lie down with a dumbbell on each hand on top of your thighs. The palms of your hand will be facing each other.
Once you are laying down, move the dumbbells in front of you at shoulder width.
Once at shoulder width, rotate your wrists forward so that the palms of your hands are facing away from you. This will be your starting position.
Bring down the weights slowly to your side as you breathe out. Keep full control of the dumbbells at all times. Tip: Throughout the motion, the forearms should always be perpendicular to the floor.
As you breathe out, push the dumbbells up using your pectoral muscles. Lock your arms in the contracted position, squeeze your chest, hold for a second and then start coming down slowly. Tip: It should take at least twice as long to go down than to come up..
Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions of your training program.
@Decline_Dumbbell_Flyes
Secure your legs at the end of the decline bench and lie down with a dumbbell on each hand on top of your thighs. The palms of your hand will be facing each other.
Once you are laying down, move the dumbbells in front of you at shoulder width. The palms of the hands should be facing each other and the arms should be perpendicular to the floor and fully extended. This will be your starting position.
With a slight bend on your elbows in order to prevent stress at the biceps tendon, lower your arms out at both sides in a wide arc until you feel a stretch on your chest. Breathe in as you perform this portion of the movement. Tip: Keep in mind that throughout the movement, the arms should remain stationary; the movement should only occur at the shoulder joint.
Return your arms back to the starting position as you squeeze your chest muscles and breathe out. Tip: Make sure to use the same arc of motion used to lower the weights.
Hold for a second at the contracted position and repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
@Decline_Dumbbell_Triceps_Extension
Secure your legs at the end of the decline bench and lie down with a dumbbell on each hand on top of your thighs. The palms of your hand will be facing each other.
Once you are laying down, move the dumbbells in front of you at shoulder width. The palms of the hands should be facing each other and the arms should be perpendicular to the floor and fully extended. This will be your starting position.
As you breathe in and you keep the upper arms stationary (and elbows in), bring the dumbbells down slowly by moving your forearms in a semicircular motion towards you until your thumbs are next to your ears. Breathe in as you perform this portion of the movement.
Lift the dumbbells back to the starting position by contracting the triceps and exhaling.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Decline_EZ_Bar_Triceps_Extension
Secure your legs at the end of the decline bench and slowly lay down on the bench.
Using a close grip (a grip that is slightly less than shoulder width), lift the EZ bar from the rack and hold it straight over you with your arms locked and elbows in. The arms should be perpendicular to the floor. This will be your starting position. Tip: In order to protect your rotator cuff, it is best if you have a spotter help you lift the barbell off the rack.
As you breathe in and you keep the upper arms stationary, bring the bar down slowly by moving your forearms in a semicircular motion towards you until you feel the bar slightly touch your forehead. Breathe in as you perform this portion of the movement.
Lift the bar back to the starting position by contracting the triceps and exhaling.
Repeat until the recommended amount of repetitions is performed.
@Decline_Oblique_Crunch
Secure your legs at the end of the decline bench and slowly lay down on the bench.
Raise your upper body off the bench until your torso is about 35-45 degrees if measured from the floor.
Put one hand beside your head and the other on your thigh. This will be your starting position.
Raise your upper body slowly from the starting position while turning your torso to the left. Continue crunching up as you exhale until your right elbow touches your left knee. Hold this contracted position for a second. Tip: Focus on keeping your abs tight and keeping the movement slow and controlled.
Lower your body back down slowly to the starting position as you inhale.
After completing one set on the right for the recommended amount of repetitions, switch to your left side. Tip: Focus on really twisting your torso and feeling the contraction when you are in the up position.
@Decline_Push-Up
Lie on the floor face down and place your hands about 36 inches apart while holding your torso up at arms length. Move your feet up to a box or bench. This will be your starting position.
Next, lower yourself downward until your chest almost touches the floor as you inhale.
Now breathe out and press your upper body back up to the starting position while squeezing your chest.
After a brief pause at the top contracted position, you can begin to lower yourself downward again for as many repetitions as needed.
@Decline_Reverse_Crunch
Lie on your back on a decline bench and hold on to the top of the bench with both hands. Don't let your body slip down from this position.
Hold your legs parallel to the floor using your abs to hold them there while keeping your knees and feet together. Tip: Your legs should be fully extended with a slight bend on the knee. This will be your starting position.
While exhaling, move your legs towards the torso as you roll your pelvis backwards and you raise your hips off the bench. At the end of this movement your knees will be touching your chest.
Hold the contraction for a second and move your legs back to the starting position while inhaling.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Decline_Smith_Press
Place a decline bench underneath the Smith machine. Now place the barbell at a height that you can reach when lying down and your arms are almost fully extended. Using a pronated grip that is wider than shoulder width, unlock the bar from the rack and hold it straight over you with your arms extended. This will be your starting position.
As you inhale, lower the bar under control by allowing the elbows to flex, lightly contacting the torso.
After a brief pause, bring the bar back to the starting position by extending the elbows, exhaling as you do so.
Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
When the set is complete, lock the bar back in the rack.
@Deficit_Deadlift
Begin by having a platform or weight plates that you can stand on, usually 1-3 inches in height. Approach the bar so that it is centered over your feet. You feet should be about hip width apart. Bend at the hip to grip the bar at shoulder width, allowing your shoulder blades to protract. Typically, you would use an overhand grip or an over/under grip on heavier sets.
With your feet, and your grip set, take a big breath and then lower your hips and bend the knees until your shins contact the bar. Look forward with your head, keep your chest up and your back arched, and begin driving through the heels to move the weight upward. After the bar passes the knees, aggressively pull the bar back, pulling your shoulder blades together as you drive your hips forward into the bar.
Lower the bar by bending at the hips and guiding it to the floor.
@Depth_Jump_Leap
For this drill you will need two boxes or benches, one 12 to 16 inches high and the other 22 to 26 inches high.
Stand on one of the two boxes with arms at the sides; feet should be together and slightly off the edge as in the depth jump. Place the other box approximately two or three feet in front of and facing the performer.
Begin by dropping off the initial box, landing and simultaneously taking off with both feet.
Rebound by driving upward and outward as intensely as possible, using the arms and full extension of the body to jump onto the higher box. Again, allow the legs to absorb the impact.
@Dip_Machine
Sit securely in a dip machine, select the weight and firmly grasp the handles.
Now keep your elbows in at your sides in order to place emphasis on the triceps. The elbows should be bent at a 90 degree angle.
As you contract the triceps, extend your arms downwards as you exhale. Tip: At the bottom of the movement, focus on keeping a little bend in your arms to keep tension on the triceps muscle.
Now slowly let your arms come back up to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Dips_-_Chest_Version
For this exercise you will need access to parallel bars. To get yourself into the starting position, hold your body at arms length (arms locked) above the bars.
While breathing in, lower yourself slowly with your torso leaning forward around 30 degrees or so and your elbows flared out slightly until you feel a slight stretch in the chest.
Once you feel the stretch, use your chest to bring your body back to the starting position as you breathe out. Tip: Remember to squeeze the chest at the top of the movement for a second.
Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
@Dips_-_Triceps_Version
To get into the starting position, hold your body at arm's length with your arms nearly locked above the bars.
Now, inhale and slowly lower yourself downward. Your torso should remain upright and your elbows should stay close to your body. This helps to better focus on tricep involvement. Lower yourself until there is a 90 degree angle formed between the upper arm and forearm.
Then, exhale and push your torso back up using your triceps to bring your body back to the starting position.
Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
@Donkey_Calf_Raises
For this exercise you will need access to a donkey calf raise machine. Start by positioning your lower back and hips under the padded lever provided. The tailbone area should be the one making contact with the pad.
Place both of your arms on the side handles and place the balls of your feet on the calf block with the heels extending off. Align the toes forward, inward or outward, depending on the area you wish to target, and straighten the knees without locking them. This will be your starting position.
Raise your heels as you breathe out by extending your ankles as high as possible and flexing your calf. Ensure that the knee is kept stationary at all times. There should be no bending at any time. Hold the contracted position by a second before you start to go back down.
Go back slowly to the starting position as you breathe in by lowering your heels as you bend the ankles until calves are stretched.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Double_Kettlebell_Alternating_Hang_Clean
Place two kettlebells between your feet. To get in the starting position, push your butt back and look straight ahead.
Clean one kettlebell to your shoulder and hold on to the other kettlebell.
With a fluid motion, lower the top kettlebell while driving the bottom kettlebell up.
@Double_Kettlebell_Jerk
Hold a kettlebell by the handle in each hand.
Clean the kettlebells to your shoulders by extending through the legs and hips as you pull the kettlebells towards your shoulders. Rotate your wrists as you do so, so that the palms face forward. This will be your starting position.
Dip your body by bending the knees, keeping your torso upright.
Immediately reverse direction, driving through the heels, in essence jumping to create momentum.
As you do so, press the kettlebells overhead to lockout by extending the arms, using your body's momentum to move the weights.
Return your feet to the ground in a split fashion, with one foot forward and one foot back.
Keeping the weights overhead, return to a standing position, bringing your feet together. Lower the weights to perform the next repetition.
@Double_Kettlebell_Push_Press
Clean two kettlebells to your shoulders.
Squat down a few inches and reverse the motion rapidly. Use the momentum from the legs to drive the kettlebells overhead.
Once the kettlebells are locked out, lower the kettlebells to your shoulders and repeat.
@Double_Kettlebell_Snatch
Place two kettlebells behind your feet. Bend your knees and sit back to pick up the kettlebells.
Swing the kettlebells between your legs forcefully and reverse the direction.
Drive through with your hips and lock the ketttlebells overhead in one uninterrupted motion.
@Double_Kettlebell_Windmill
Place a kettlebell in front of your front foot and clean and press a kettlebell overhead with your opposite arm. Clean the kettlebell to your shoulder by extending through the legs and hips as you pull the kettlebell towards your shoulders. Rotate your wrist as you do so, so that the palm faces forward.
Keeping the kettlebell locked out at all times, push your butt out in the direction of the locked out kettlebell. Turn your feet out at a forty-five degree angle from the arm with the locked out kettlebell.
Bending at the hip to one side, sticking your butt out, slowly lean until you can retrieve the kettlebell from the floor. Keep your eyes on the kettlebell that you hold over your head at all times.
Pause for a second after retrieving the kettlebell from the ground and reverse the motion back to the starting position.
@Double_Leg_Butt_Kick
Begin standing with your knees slightly bent.
Quickly squat a short distance, flexing the hips and knees, and immediately extend to jump for maximum vertical height.
As you go up, tuck your heels by flexing the knees, attempting to touch the buttocks.
Finish the motion by landing with the knees only partially bent, using your legs to absorb the impact.
@Downward_Facing_Balance
Lie facedown on top of an exercise ball.
While resting on your stomach on the ball, walk your hands forward along the floor and lift your legs, extending your elbows and knees.
@Drag_Curl
Grab a barbell with a supinated grip (palms facing forward) and get your elbows close to your torso and back. This will be your starting position.
As you exhale, curl the bar up while keeping the elbows to the back as you "Drag" the bar up by keeping it in contact with your torso. Tip: As you can see, you will not be keeping the elbows pinned to your sides, but instead you will be bringing them back. Also, do not lift your shoulders.
Slowly go back to the starting position as you keep the bar in contact with the torso at all times.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Drop_Push
Position low boxes or other platforms 2-3 feet apart.
Move to a pushup position between them, supporting yourself by placing your hands on the boxes.
With good posture, drop from the platforms by pressing up and moving your hands to shoulder width, cushioning your landing by absorbing the impact through the arm.
@Dumbbell_Alternate_Bicep_Curl
Stand (torso upright) with a dumbbell in each hand held at arms length. The elbows should be close to the torso and the palms of your hand should be facing your thighs.
While holding the upper arm stationary, curl the right weight as you rotate the palm of the hands until they are facing forward. At this point continue contracting the biceps as you breathe out until your biceps is fully contracted and the dumbbells are at shoulder level. Hold the contracted position for a second as you squeeze the biceps. Tip: Only the forearms should move.
Slowly begin to bring the dumbbell back to the starting position as your breathe in. Tip: Remember to twist the palms back to the starting position (facing your thighs) as you come down.
Repeat the movement with the left hand. This equals one repetition.
Continue alternating in this manner for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Dumbbell_Bench_Press
Lie down on a flat bench with a dumbbell in each hand resting on top of your thighs. The palms of your hands will be facing each other.
Then, using your thighs to help raise the dumbbells up, lift the dumbbells one at a time so that you can hold them in front of you at shoulder width.
Once at shoulder width, rotate your wrists forward so that the palms of your hands are facing away from you. The dumbbells should be just to the sides of your chest, with your upper arm and forearm creating a 90 degree angle. Be sure to maintain full control of the dumbbells at all times. This will be your starting position.
Then, as you breathe out, use your chest to push the dumbbells up. Lock your arms at the top of the lift and squeeze your chest, hold for a second and then begin coming down slowly. Tip: Ideally, lowering the weight should take about twice as long as raising it.
Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions of your training program.
@Dumbbell_Bench_Press_with_Neutral_Grip
Take a dumbbell in each hand and lay back onto a flat bench. Your feet should be flat on the floor and your shoulder blades retracted.
Maintaining a neutral grip, palms facing each other, begin with your arms extended directly above you, perpendicular to the floor. This will be your starting position.
Begin the movement by flexing the elbow, lowering the upper arms to the side. Descend until the dumbbells are to your torso.
Pause, then extend the elbow and return to the starting position.
@Dumbbell_Bicep_Curl
Stand up straight with a dumbbell in each hand at arm's length. Keep your elbows close to your torso and rotate the palms of your hands until they are facing forward. This will be your starting position.
Now, keeping the upper arms stationary, exhale and curl the weights while contracting your biceps. Continue to raise the weights until your biceps are fully contracted and the dumbbells are at shoulder level. Hold the contracted position for a brief pause as you squeeze your biceps.
Then, inhale and slowly begin to lower the dumbbells back to the starting position.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Dumbbell_Clean
Begin standing with a dumbbell in each hand with your feet shoulder width apart.
Lower the weights to the floor by flexing at the hips and knees, pushing your hips back until the dumbbells reach the floor. This will be your starting position.
To initiate the movement, violently jump upward by extending the hips, knees, and ankles to acclerate the weights upward. Maintaining a neutral grip on the dumbbells, keep the arms straight until full extension is reached.
After full extension, rebend the hips and knees to receive the weight in a squat position. Allow the arms to bend, guiding the dumbbells to your shoulders.
Upon receiving the weight in the squat position, extend the hips and knees to finish in a standing position with the weights on your shoulders.
@Dumbbell_Floor_Press
Lay on the floor holding dumbbells in your hands. Your knees can be bent. Begin with the weights fully extended above you.
Lower the weights until your upper arm comes in contact with the floor. You can tuck your elbows to emphasize triceps size and strength, or to focus on your chest angle your arms to the side.
Pause at the bottom, and then bring the weight together at the top by extending through the elbows.
@Dumbbell_Flyes
Lie down on a flat bench with a dumbbell on each hand resting on top of your thighs. The palms of your hand will be facing each other.
Then using your thighs to help raise the dumbbells, lift the dumbbells one at a time so you can hold them in front of you at shoulder width with the palms of your hands facing each other. Raise the dumbbells up like you're pressing them, but stop and hold just before you lock out. This will be your starting position.
With a slight bend on your elbows in order to prevent stress at the biceps tendon, lower your arms out at both sides in a wide arc until you feel a stretch on your chest. Breathe in as you perform this portion of the movement. Tip: Keep in mind that throughout the movement, the arms should remain stationary; the movement should only occur at the shoulder joint.
Return your arms back to the starting position as you squeeze your chest muscles and breathe out. Tip: Make sure to use the same arc of motion used to lower the weights.
Hold for a second at the contracted position and repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
@Dumbbell_Incline_Row
Using a neutral grip, lean into an incline bench.
Take a dumbbell in each hand with a neutral grip, beginning with the arms straight. This will be your starting position.
Retract the shoulder blades and flex the elbows to row the dumbbells to your side.
Pause at the top of the motion, and then return to the starting position.
@Dumbbell_Incline_Shoulder_Raise
Sit on an Incline Bench while holding a dumbbell on each hand on top of your thighs.
Lift your legs up to kick the weights to your shoulders and lean back. Position the dumbbells above your shoulders with your arms extended. The arms should be perpendicular to the floor with your palms facing forward and knuckles pointing towards the ceiling. This will be your starting position.
While keeping the arms straight and locked, lift the dumbbells by raising the shoulders from the bench as you breathe out.
Bring back the dumbbells to the starting position as you breathe in.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Dumbbell_Lunges
Stand with your torso upright holding two dumbbells in your hands by your sides. This will be your starting position.
Step forward with your right leg around 2 feet or so from the foot being left stationary behind and lower your upper body down, while keeping the torso upright and maintaining balance. Inhale as you go down. Note: As in the other exercises, do not allow your knee to go forward beyond your toes as you come down, as this will put undue stress on the knee joint. Make sure that you keep your front shin perpendicular to the ground.
Using mainly the heel of your foot, push up and go back to the starting position as you exhale.
Repeat the movement for the recommended amount of repetitions and then perform with the left leg.
@Dumbbell_Lying_One-Arm_Rear_Lateral_Raise
While holding a dumbbell in one hand, lay with your chest down on a slightly inclined (around 15 degrees when measured from the floor) adjustable bench. The other hand can be used to hold to the leg of the bench for stability.
Position the palm of the hand that is holding the dumbbell in a neutral manner (palms facing your torso) as you keep the arm extended with the elbow slightly bent. This will be your starting position.
Now raise the arm with the dumbbell to the side until your elbow is at shoulder height and your arm is roughly parallel to the floor as you exhale. Tip: Maintain your arm perpendicular to the torso while keeping your arm extended throughout the movement. Also, keep the contraction at the top for a second.
Slowly lower the dumbbell to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Dumbbell_Lying_Pronation
Lie on a flat bench face down with one arm holding a dumbbell and the other hand on top of the bench folded so that you can rest your head on it.
Bend the elbows of the arm holding the dumbbell so that it creates a 90-degree angle between the upper arm and the forearm.
Now raise the upper arm so that the forearm is perpendicular to the floor and the upper arm is perpendicular to your torso. Tip: The upper arm should be parallel to the floor and also creating a 90-degree angle with your torso. This will be your starting position.
As you breathe out, externally rotate your forearm so that the dumbbell is lifted forward as you maintain the 90 degree angle bend between the upper arms and the forearm. You will continue this external rotation until the forearm is parallel to the floor. At this point you will hold the contraction for a second.
As you breathe in, slowly go back to the starting position.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Dumbbell_Lying_Rear_Lateral_Raise
While holding a dumbbell in each hand, lay with your chest down on a slightly inclined (around 15 degrees when measured from the floor) adjustable bench.
Position the palms of the hands in a neutral manner (palms facing your torso) as you keep the arms extended with the elbows slightly bent. This will be your starting position.
Now raise the arms to the side until your elbows are at shoulder height and your arms are roughly parallel to the floor as you exhale. Tip: Maintain your arms perpendicular to the torso while keeping them extended throughout the movement. Also, keep the contraction at the top for a second.
Slowly lower the dumbbells to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions and then switch to the other arm.
@Dumbbell_Lying_Supination
Lie sideways on a flat bench with one arm holding a dumbbell and the other hand on top of the bench folded so that you can rest your head on it.
Bend the elbows of the arm holding the dumbbell so that it creates a 90-degree angle between the upper arm and the forearm.
Now raise the upper arm so that the forearm is parallel to the floor and perpendicular to your torso (Tip: So the forearm will be directly in front of you). The upper arm will be stationary by your torso and should be parallel to the floor (aligned with your torso at all times). This will be your starting position.
As you breathe out, externally rotate your forearm so that the dumbbell is lifted up in a semicircle motion as you maintain the 90 degree angle bend between the upper arms and the forearm. You will continue this external rotation until the forearm is perpendicular to the floor and the torso pointing towards the ceiling. At this point you will hold the contraction for a second.
As you breathe in, slowly go back to the starting position.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions and then switch to the other arm.
@Dumbbell_One-Arm_Shoulder_Press
Grab a dumbbell and either sit on a military press bench or a utility bench that has a back support on it as you place the dumbbells upright on top of your thighs or stand up straight.
Clean the dumbbell up to bring it to shoulder height. The other hand can be kept fully extended to the side, by the waist or grabbing a fixed surface.
Rotate the wrist so that the palm of your hand is facing forward. This is your starting position.
As you exhale, push the dumbbell up until your arm is fully extended.
After a second pause, slowly come down back to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions and then switch arms.
@Dumbbell_One-Arm_Triceps_Extension
Grab a dumbbell and either sit on a military press bench or a utility bench that has a back support on it as you place the dumbbells upright on top of your thighs or stand up straight.
Clean the dumbbell up to bring it to shoulder height and then extend the arm over your head so that the whole arm is perpendicular to the floor and next to your head. The dumbbell should be on top of you. The other hand can be kept fully extended to the side, by the waist, supporting the upper arm that has the dumbbell or grabbing a fixed surface.
Rotate the wrist so that the palm of your hand is facing forward and the pinkie is facing the ceiling. This will be your starting position.
Slowly lower the dumbbell behind your head as you hold the upper arm stationary. Inhale as you perform this movement and pause when your triceps are fully stretched.
Return to the starting position by flexing your triceps as you breathe out. Tip: It is imperative that only the forearm moves. The upper arm should remain at all times stationary next to your head.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions and switch arms.
@Dumbbell_One-Arm_Upright_Row
Grab a dumbbell and stand up straight with your arm extended in front of you with a slight bend at the elbows and your back straight. This will be your starting position. Tip: The dumbbell should be resting on top of your thigh with the palm of your hands facing your thighs.
Keep the other hand can be kept fully extended to the side, by the waist or grabbing a fixed surface. This will be your starting position.
Use your side shoulders to lift the dumbbell as you exhale. The dumbbell should be close to the body as you move it up. Continue to lift it until the dumbbell is nearly in line with your chin. Tip: Your elbows should drive the motion. As you lift the dumbbell, your elbow should always be higher than your forearm. Also, keep your torso stationary and pause for a second at the top of the movement.
Lower the dumbbell back down slowly to the starting position. Inhale as you perform this portion of the movement.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions and switch arms.
@Dumbbell_Prone_Incline_Curl
Grab a dumbbell on each hand and lie face down on an incline bench with your shoulders near top of the incline. Your knees can rest on the seat or your legs can be straddled to the sides (my preferred way).
Let your arms extend and hang naturally in front of you so that they are perpendicular to the floor.
Now keep your elbows in by your side and face the palms forward. This will be your starting position.
Raise the dumbbells by contracting the biceps until your arms are fully flexed. Exhale as you perform this portion of the movement and ensure that only the forearms move. The upper arms should remain stationary at all times.
Lower the dumbbells until your arms are fully extended.
Repeat for the recommended amount of times.
@Dumbbell_Raise
Grab a dumbbell in each arm and stand up straight with your arms extended by your sides with a slight bend at the elbows and your back straight. This will be your starting position. Tip: The dumbbell should be next to your thighs with the palm of your hands facing back.
Use your side shoulders to lift the dumbbells as you exhale. The dumbbells should be to the side of the body as you move them up. Continue to lift it until the dumbbells are nearly in line with your chin. Tip: Your elbows should drive the motion. As you lift the dumbbell, your elbow should always be higher than your forearm. Also, keep your torso stationary and pause for a second at the top of the movement.
Lower the dumbbells back down slowly to the starting position. Inhale as you perform this portion of the movement.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Dumbbell_Rear_Lunge
Stand with your torso upright holding two dumbbells in your hands by your sides. This will be your starting position.
Step backward with your right leg around two feet or so from the left foot and lower your upper body down, while keeping the torso upright and maintaining balance. Inhale as you go down. Tip: As in the other exercises, do not allow your knee to go forward beyond your toes as you come down, as this will put undue stress on the knee joint. Make sure that you keep your front shin perpendicular to the ground. Keep the torso upright during the lunge; flexible hip flexors are important. A long lunge emphasizes the Gluteus Maximus; a short lunge emphasizes Quadriceps.
Push up and go back to the starting position as you exhale. Tip: Use the ball of your feet to push in order to accentuate the quadriceps. To focus on the glutes, press with your heels.
Now repeat with the opposite leg.