@Kneeling_Jump_Squat
Begin kneeling on the floor with a barbell racked across the back of your shoulders, or you can use your body weight for this exercise. This can be done inside of a power rack to make unracking easier.
Sit back with your hips until your glutes touch your feet, keeping your head and chest up.
Explode up with your hips, generating enough power to land with your feet flat on the floor.
Continue with the squat by driving through your heels and extending the knees to come to a standing position.
@Kneeling_Single-Arm_High_Pulley_Row
Attach a single handle to a high pulley and make your weight selection.
Kneel in front of the cable tower, taking the cable with one hand with your arm extended. This will be your starting position.
Starting with your palm facing forward, pull the weight down to your torso by flexing the elbow and retract the shoulder blade. As you do so, rotate the wrist so that at the completion of the movement, your palm is now facing you.
After a brief pause, return to the starting position.
@Kneeling_Squat
Set the bar to the proper height in a power rack. Kneel behind the bar; it may be beneficial to put a mat down to pad your knees. Slide under the bar, racking it across the back of your shoulders. Your shoulder blades should be retracted and the bar tight across your back. Unrack the weight.
With your head looking forward, sit back with your butt until you touch your calves.
Reverse the motion, returning the torso to an upright position.
@Landmine_180s
Position a bar into a landmine or securely anchor it in a corner. Load the bar to an appropriate weight.
Raise the bar from the floor, taking it to shoulder height with both hands with your arms extended in front of you. Adopt a wide stance. This will be your starting position.
Perform the movement by rotating the trunk and hips as you swing the weight all the way down to one side. Keep your arms extended throughout the exercise.
Reverse the motion to swing the weight all the way to the opposite side.
Continue alternating the movement until the set is complete.
@Landmine_Linear_Jammer
Position a bar into landmine or, lacking one, securely anchor it in a corner. Load the bar to an appropriate weight and position the handle attachment on the bar.
Raise the bar from the floor, taking the handles to your shoulders. This will be your starting position.
In an athletic stance, squat by flexing your hips and setting your hips back, keeping your arms flexed.
Reverse the motion by powerfully extending through the hips, knees, and ankles, while also extending the elbows to straighten the arms. This movement should be done explosively, coming out of the squat to full extension as powerfully as possible.
Return to the starting position.
@Lateral_Bound
Assume a half squat position facing 90 degrees from your direction of travel. This will be your starting position.
Allow your lead leg to do a countermovement inward as you shift your weight to the outside leg.
Immediately push off and extend, attempting to bound to the side as far as possible.
Upon landing, immediately push off in the opposite direction, returning to your original start position.
Continue back and forth for several repetitions.
@Lateral_Box_Jump
Assume a comfortable standing position, with a short box positioned next to you. This will be your starting position.
Quickly dip into a quarter squat to initiate the stretch reflex, and immediately reverse direction to jump up and to the side.
Bring your knees high enough to ensure your feet have good clearance over the box.
Land on the center of the box, using your legs to absorb the impact.
Carefully jump down to the other side of the box, and continue going back and forth for several repetitions.
@Lateral_Cone_Hops
Position a number of cones in a row several feet apart.
Stand next to the end of the cones, facing 90 degrees to the direction of travel. This will be your starting position.
Begin the jump by dipping with the knees to initiate a stretch reflex, and immediately reverse direction to push off the ground, jumping up and sideways over the cone.
Use your legs to absorb impact upon landing, and rebound into the next jump, continuing down the row of cones.
@Lateral_Raise_-_With_Bands
To begin, stand on an exercise band so that tension begins at arm's length. Grasp the handles using a pronated (palms facing your thighs) grip that is slightly less than shoulder width. The handles should be resting on the sides of your thighs. Your arms should be extended with a slight bend at the elbows and your back should be straight. This will be your starting position.
Use your side shoulders to lift the handles to the sides as you exhale. Continue to lift the handles until they are slightly above parallel. Tip: As you lift the handles, slightly tilt the hand as if you were pouring water and keep your arms extended. Also, keep your torso stationary and pause for a second at the top of the movement.
Lower the handles back down slowly to the starting position. Inhale as you perform this portion of the movement.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Latissimus_Dorsi-SMR
While lying on the floor, place a foam roll under your back and to one side, just behind your arm pit. This will be your starting position.
Keep the arm of the side being stretched behind and to the side of you as you shift your weight onto your lats, keeping your upper body off of the ground. Hold for 10-30 seconds, and switch sides.
@Leg_Extensions
For this exercise you will need to use a leg extension machine. First choose your weight and sit on the machine with your legs under the pad (feet pointed forward) and the hands holding the side bars. This will be your starting position. Tip: You will need to adjust the pad so that it falls on top of your lower leg (just above your feet). Also, make sure that your legs form a 90-degree angle between the lower and upper leg. If the angle is less than 90-degrees then that means the knee is over the toes which in turn creates undue stress at the knee joint. If the machine is designed that way, either look for another machine or just make sure that when you start executing the exercise you stop going down once you hit the 90-degree angle.
Using your quadriceps, extend your legs to the maximum as you exhale. Ensure that the rest of the body remains stationary on the seat. Pause a second on the contracted position.
Slowly lower the weight back to the original position as you inhale, ensuring that you do not go past the 90-degree angle limit.
Repeat for the recommended amount of times.
@Leg_Lift
While standing up straight with both feet next to each other at around shoulder width, grab a sturdy surface such as the sides of a squat rack or the top of a chair to brace yourself and keep balance.
With or without an ankle weight, lift one leg behind you as if performing a leg curl but standing up while keeping the other leg straight. Breathe out as you perform this movement.
Slowly bring the raised leg back to the floor as you breathe in.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
Repeat the movement with the opposite leg.
@Leg_Press
Using a leg press machine, sit down on the machine and place your legs on the platform directly in front of you at a medium (shoulder width) foot stance. (Note: For the purposes of this discussion we will use the medium stance described above which targets overall development; however you can choose any of the three stances described in the foot positioning section).
Lower the safety bars holding the weighted platform in place and press the platform all the way up until your legs are fully extended in front of you. Tip: Make sure that you do not lock your knees. Your torso and the legs should make a perfect 90-degree angle. This will be your starting position.
As you inhale, slowly lower the platform until your upper and lower legs make a 90-degree angle.
Pushing mainly with the heels of your feet and using the quadriceps go back to the starting position as you exhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions and ensure to lock the safety pins properly once you are done. You do not want that platform falling on you fully loaded.
@Leg_Pull-In
Lie on an exercise mat with your legs extended and your hands either palms facing down next to you or under your glutes. Tip: My preference is with the hands next to me. This will be your starting position.
Bend your knees and pull your upper thighs into your midsection as you breathe out. Continue the motion until your knees are around chest level. Contract your abs as you execute this movement and hold for a second at the top. Tip: As you perform the motion, the lower legs (calves) should always remain parallel to the floor.
Return to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Leg-Over_Floor_Press
Lie on the floor with one kettlebell in place on your chest, holding it by the handle. Extend leg on working side over leg on non-working side.Your free arm can be extended out to your side for support.
Press the kettlebll into a locked out position.
Lower the weight until the elbow touches the ground, keeping the kettlebell above the elbow. Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
@Leg-Up_Hamstring_Stretch
Lie flat on your back, bend one knee, and put that foot flat on the floor to stabilize your spine.
Extend the other leg in the air. If you're tight, you wont be able to straighten it. That's okay. Extend the knee so that the sole of the lifted foot faces the ceiling (or as close as you can get it).
Slowly straighten the legs as much as possible and then pull the leg toward your nose. Switch sides.
@Leverage_Chest_Press
Load an appropriate weight onto the pins and adjust the seat for your height. The handles should be near the bottom or middle of the pectorals at the beginning of the motion.
Your chest and head should be up and your shoulder blades retracted. This will be your starting position.
Press the handles forward by extending through the elbow.
After a brief pause at the top, return the weight just above the start position, keeping tension on the muscles by not returning the weight to the stops until the set is complete.
@Leverage_Deadlift
Load the pins to an appropriate weight. Position yourself directly between the handles. Grasp the bottom handles with a comfortable grip, and then lower your hips as you take a breath. Look forward with your head and keep your chest up. This will be your starting position.
Return the weight to the starting position.
@Leverage_Decline_Chest_Press
Load an appropriate weight onto the pins and adjust the seat for your height. The handles should be near the bottom of the pectorals at the beginning of the motion. Your chest and head should be up and your shoulder blades retracted. This will be your starting position.
Press the handles forward by extending through the elbow.
After a brief pause at the top, return the weight just above the start position, keeping tension on the muscles by not returning the weight to the stops until the set is complete.
@Leverage_High_Row
Load an appropriate weight onto the pins and adjust the seat height so that you can just reach the handles above you. Adjust the knee pad to help keep you down. Grasp the handles with a pronated grip. This will be your starting position.
Pull the handles towards your torso, retracting your shoulder blades as you flex the elbow.
Pause at the bottom of the motion, and then slowly return the handles to the starting position.
For multiple repetitions, avoid completely returning the weight to the stops to keep tension on the muscles being worked.
@Leverage_Incline_Chest_Press
Load an appropriate weight onto the pins and adjust the seat for your height. The handles should be near the top of the pectorals at the beginning of the motion. Your chest and head should be up and your shoulder blades retracted. This will be your starting position.
Press the handles forward by extending through the elbow.
After a brief pause at the top, return the weight just above the start position, keeping tension on the muscles by not returning the weight to the stops until the set is complete.
@Leverage_Iso_Row
Load an appropriate weight onto the pins and adjust the seat height so that the handles are at chest level. Grasp the handles with either a neutral or pronated grip. This will be your starting position.
Pull the handles towards your torso, retracting your shoulder blades as you flex the elbow.
Pause at the bottom of the motion, and then slowly return the handles to the starting position. For multiple repetitions, avoid completely returning the weight to the stops to keep tension on the muscles being worked.
@Leverage_Shoulder_Press
Load an appropriate weight onto the pins and adjust the seat for your height. The handles should be near the top of the shoulders at the beginning of the motion. Your chest and head should be up and handles held with a pronated grip. This will be your starting position.
Press the handles upward by extending through the elbow.
After a brief pause at the top, return the weight to just above the start position, keeping tension on the muscles by not returning the weight to the stops until the set is complete.
@Leverage_Shrug
Load the pins to an appropriate weight. Position yourself directly between the handles.
Grasp the top handles with a comfortable grip, and then lower your hips as you take a breath. Look forward with your head and keep your chest up.
Drive through the floor with your heels, extending your hips and knees as you rise to a standing position. Keep your arms straight throughout the movement, finishing with your shoulders back. This will be your starting position.
Raise the weight by shrugging the shoulders towards your ears, moving straight up and down.
Pause at the top of the motion, and then return the weight to the starting position.
@Linear_3-Part_Start_Technique
This drill helps you accelerate as quickly as possible into a sprint from a dead stop. It helps to use a line to start from. Begin with two feet on the line. Place your left foot with the toe next to your right ankle. Place your right foot 4-6 inches behind the left.
Place your right hand onto the line, and thing bring your nose close to your left knee.
Squat down as you lean foward, your head being lower than your hips and your weight loaded onto the left leg. This will be your starting position.
Take your left hand up so that it is parallel to the ground, pointing behind you, and explode out when ready.
@Linear_Acceleration_Wall_Drill
Lean at around 45 degrees against a wall. Your feet should be together, glutes contracted.
Begin by lifting your right knee quickly, pausing, and then driving it straight down into the ground.
Switch legs, raising the opposite knee, and then attacking the ground straight down.
Repeat once more with your right leg, and as soon as the right foot strikes the ground hammer them out rapidly, alternating left and right as fast as you can.
@Linear_Depth_Jump
You will need two boxes or benches spaced a few feet away from each other. Begin by standing on one box facing towards the other platform.
To initiate the movement, gently drop down to the ground between your platforms, allowing the knees and hips to flex.
Reverse the motion by exploding, extending through the hips, knees, and ankles to jump onto the other platform.
Land softly, asborbing the impact through the legs.
@Log_Lift
Begin standing with the log in front of you. Grasp the handles, and begin to clean the log. As you are bent over to start the clean, attempt to get the log as high as possible, pulling it into your chest. Extend through the hips and knees to bring it up to complete the clean.
Push your head back and look up, creating a shelf on your chest to rest the log. Begin the press by dipping, flexing slightly through the knees and reversing the motion. This push press will generate momentum to start the log moving vertically. Continue by extending through the elbows to press the log above your head. There are no strict rules on form, so use whatever techniques you are most efficient with. As the log is pressed, ensure that you push your head through on each repetition, looking forward.
Repeat as many times as possible. Attempt to control the descent of the log as it is returned to the ground.
@London_Bridges
Attach a climbing rope to a high beam or cross member. Below it, ensure that the smith machine bar is locked in place with the safeties and cannot move. Alternatively, a secure box could also be utilized.
Stand on the bar, using the rope to balance yourself. This will be your starting position.
Keeping your body straight, lean back and lower your body by slowly going hand over hand with the rope. Continue until you are perpendicular to the ground.
Keeping your body straight, reverse the motion, going hand over hand back to the starting position.
@Looking_At_Ceiling
Kneel on the floor, holding your heels with both hands.
Lift your buttocks up and forward while bringing your head back to look up at the ceiling, to give an arch in your back.
@Low_Cable_Crossover
To move into the starting position, place the pulleys at the low position, select the resistance to be used and grasp a handle in each hand.
Step forward, gaining tension in the pulleys. Your palms should be facing forward, hands below the waist, and your arms straight. This will be your starting position.
With a slight bend in your arms, draw your hands upward and toward the midline of your body. Your hands should come together in front of your chest, palms facing up.
Return your arms back to the starting position after a brief pause.
@Low_Cable_Triceps_Extension
Select the desired weight and lay down face up on the bench of a seated row machine that has a rope attached to it. Your head should be pointing towards the attachment.
Grab the outside of the rope ends with your palms facing each other (neutral grip).
Position your elbows so that they are bent at a 90 degree angle and your upper arms are perpendicular (90 degree angle) to your torso. Tip: Keep the elbows in and make sure that the upper arms point to the ceiling while your forearms point towards the pulley above your head. This will be your starting position.
As you breathe out, extend your lower arms until they are straight and vertical. The upper arms and elbows remain stationary throughout the movement. Only the forearms should move. Contract the triceps hard for a second.
As you breathe in slowly return to the starting position.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Low_Pulley_Row_To_Neck
Sit on a low pulley row machine with a rope attachment.
Grab the ends of the rope using a palms-down grip and sit with your back straight and your knees slightly bent. Tip: Keep your back almost completely vertical and your arms fully extended in front of you. This will be your starting position.
While keeping your torso stationary, lift your elbows and start bending them as you pull the rope towards your neck while exhaling. Throughout the movement your upper arms should remain parallel to the floor. Tip: Continue this motion until your hands are almost next to your ears (the forearms will not be parallel to the floor at the end of the movement as they will be angled a bit upwards) and your elbows are out away from your sides.
After holding for a second or so at the contracted position, come back slowly to the starting position as you inhale. Tip: Again, during no part of the movement should the torso move.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Lower_Back_Curl
Lie on your stomach with your arms out to your sides. This will be your starting position.
Using your lower back muscles, extend your spine lifting your chest off of the ground. Do not use your arms to push yourself up. Keep your head up during the movement. Repeat for 10-20 repetitions.
@Lower_Back-SMR
In a seated position, place a foam roll under your lower back. Cross your arms in front of you and protract your shoulders. This will be your starting position.
Raise your hips off of the floor and lean back, keeping your weight on your lower back. Now shift your weight slightly to one side, keeping your weight off of the spine and on the muscles to the side of it. Roll over your lower back, holding points of tension for 10-30 seconds. Repeat on the other side.
@Lunge_Pass_Through
Stand with your torso upright holding a kettlebell in your right hand. This will be your starting position.
Step forward with your left foot and lower your upper body down by flexing the hip and the knee, keeping the torso upright. Lower your back knee until it nearly touches the ground.
As you lunge, pass the kettlebell under your front leg to your opposite hand.
Pressing through the heel of your foot, return to the starting position.
Repeat the movement for the recommended amount of repetitions, alternating legs.
@Lunge_Sprint
Adjust a bar in a Smith machine to an appropriate height. Position yourself under the bar, racking it across the back of your shoulders. Unrack the bar, and then split your feet, moving one foot forward and one foot back. This will be your starting position.
Lower your back knee nearly to the ground, flexing the knees and lowering your hips as you do so.
At the bottom of the descent, immediately reverse direction. Explosively drive through the heel of your front foot with light pressure from your back foot. Jump up and reverse the position of your legs.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Lying_Bent_Leg_Groin
Lie on your back with your knees bent and the soles of the feet pressed together. Have your partner hold your knees. This will be your starting position.
Attempt to squeeze your knees together, while your partner prevents any movement from occurring.
After 10-20 seconds, relax your muscles as your partner gently pushes your knees towards the floor. Be sure to inform your helper when the stretch is adequate to prevent injury or overstretching.
@Lying_Cable_Curl
Grab a straight bar or E-Z bar attachment that is attached to the low pulley with both hands, using an underhand (palms facing up) shoulder-width grip.
Lie flat on your back on top of an exercise mat in front of the weight stack with your feet flat against the frame of the pulley machine and your legs straight.
With your arms extended and your elbows close to your body slightly bend your arms. This will be your starting position.
While keeping your upper arms stationary and the elbows close to your body, curl the bar up slowly toward your chest as you breathe out and you squeeze the biceps.
After a second squeeze at the top of the movement, slowly return to the starting position.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Lying_Cambered_Barbell_Row
Place a cambered bar underneath an exercise bench.
Lie face down on the exercise bench and grab the bar using a palms down (pronated grip) that is wider than shoulder width. This will be your starting position.
As you exhale row the bar up as you keep the elbows close to your body to either your chest, in order to target the upper mid back, or to your stomach if targeting the lats is your goal.
After a second hold at the top, lower back down to the starting position slowly as you inhale.
@Lying_Close-Grip_Bar_Curl_On_High_Pulley
Place a flat bench in front of a high pulley or lat pulldown machine.
Hold the straight bar attachment using an underhand grip (palms up) that is about shoulder width.
Lie on your back with your head over the end of the bench.
Now extend your arms straight above your shoulders. Your torso and your arms should make a 90-degree angle and the elbows should be in. This will be your starting position.
As you breathe out, curl the bar down in a semicircular motion until it touches your chin. Squeeze the biceps for a second at the top contracted position. Tip: As you execute this motion only the forearms should move. At no time should the upper arms be moving at all. They are to remain perpendicular throughout the movement.
Return to starting position slowly.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Lying_Close-Grip_Barbell_Triceps_Extension_Behind_The_Head
While holding a barbell or EZ Curl bar with a pronated grip (palms facing forward), lie on your back on a flat bench with your head close to the end of the bench. Tip: If you are holding a barbell grab it using a shoulder-width grip and if you are using an E-Z Bar grab it on the inner handles.
Extend your arms in front of you and slowly bring the bar back in a semi circular motion (while keeping the arms extended) to a position over your head. At the end of this step your arms should be overhead and parallel to the floor. This will be your starting position. Tip: Keep your elbows in at all times.
As you inhale, lower the bar by bending at the elbows and while keeping the upper arm stationary. Keep lowering the bar until your forearms are perpendicular to the floor.
As you exhale bring the bar back up to the starting position by pushing the bar up in a semi-circular motion until the lower arms are also parallel to the floor. Contract the triceps hard at the top of the movement for a second. Tip: Again, only the forearms should move. The upper arms should remain stationary at all times.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Lying_Close-Grip_Barbell_Triceps_Press_To_Chin
While holding a barbell or EZ Curl bar with a pronated grip (palms facing forward), lie on your back on a flat bench with your head off the end of the bench. Tip: If you are holding a barbell grab it using a shoulder-width grip and if you are using an E-Z Bar grab it on the inner handles.
Extend your arms in front of you as you hold the barbell over your chest. The arms should be perpendicular to your torso (90-degree angle). This will be your starting position.
As you inhale, lower the bar in a semi-circular motion by bending at the elbows and while keeping the upper arm stationary and elbows in. Keep lowering the bar until it lightly touches your chin.
As you exhale bring the bar back up to the starting position by pushing the bar up in a semi-circular motion. Contract the triceps hard at the top of the movement for a second. Tip: Again, only the forearms should move. The upper arms should remain stationary at all times.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Lying_Crossover
Lie on your back with your legs extended.
Cross one leg over your body with the knee bent, attempting to touch the knee to the ground. Your partner should kneel beside you, holding your shoulder down with one hand and controlling the crossed leg with the other. this will be your starting position.
Attempt to raise the bent knee off of the ground as your partner prevents any actual movement.
After 10-20 seconds, relax the leg as your partner gently presses the knee towards the floor. Repeat with the other side.
@Lying_Dumbbell_Tricep_Extension
Lie on a flat bench while holding two dumbbells directly in front of you. Your arms should be fully extended at a 90-degree angle from your torso and the floor. The palms should be facing in and the elbows should be tucked in. This is the starting position.
As you breathe in and you keep the upper arms stationary with the elbows in, slowly lower the weight until the dumbbells are near your ears.
At that point, while keeping the elbows in and the upper arms stationary, use the triceps to bring the weight back up to the starting position as you breathe out.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Lying_Face_Down_Plate_Neck_Resistance
Lie face down with your whole body straight on a flat bench while holding a weight plate behind your head. Tip: You will need to position yourself so that your shoulders are slightly above the end of a flat bench in order for the upper chest, neck and face to be off the bench. This will be your starting position.
While keeping the plate secure on the back of your head slowly lower your head (as in saying "yes") as you breathe in.
Raise your head back up to the starting position in a semi-circular motion as you breathe out. Hold the contraction for a second.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Lying_Face_Up_Plate_Neck_Resistance
Lie face up with your whole body straight on a flat bench while holding a weight plate on top of your forehead. Tip: You will need to position yourself so that your shoulders are slightly above the end of a flat bench in order for the traps, neck and head to be off the bench. This will be your starting position.
While keeping the plate secure on your forehead slowly lower your head back in a semi-circular motion as you breathe in.
Raise your head back up to the starting position in a semi-circular motion as you breathe out. Hold the contraction for a second.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Lying_Glute
Lie on your back with your partner kneeling beside you.
Flex the hip of one leg, raising it off of the floor. Rotate the leg so the foot is over the opposite hip, the lower leg perpendicular to your body. Your partner should hold the knee and ankle in place. This will be your starting position.
Attempt to push your leg towards your partner, who should be preventing any actual movement of the leg.
After 10-20 seconds, completely relax as your partner gently pushes the ankle and knee towards your chest. Be sure to inform your helper when the stretch is adequate to prevent injury or overstretching.
@Lying_Hamstring
Lie on your back with your legs extended. Your partner should be kneeling beside you. Raise one leg up towards the ceiling and have your partner hold the ankle. Your partner can use their shoulder to brace your leg if necessary. This will be your starting position.
With your partner holding your leg in place, attempt to flex the knee, contracting the hamstrings for 10-20 seconds.
Then relax your leg, allowing your partner to gently push the leg towards your head. Be sure to inform your helper when the stretch is adequate to prevent injury or overstretching. Switch sides once complete.
@Lying_High_Bench_Barbell_Curl
Lie face forward on a tall flat bench while holding a barbell with a supinated grip (palms facing up). Tip: If you are holding a barbell grab it using a shoulder-width grip and if you are using an E-Z Bar grab it on the inner handles. Your upper body should be positioned in a way that the upper chest is over the end of the bench and the barbell is hanging in front of you with the arms extended and perpendicular to the floor. This will be your starting position.
While keeping the elbows in and the upper arms stationary, curl the weight up in a semi-circular motion as you contract the biceps and exhale. Hold at the top of the movement for a second.
As you inhale, slowly go back to the starting position. Tip: Maintain full control of the weight at all times and avoid any swinging. Remember, only the forearms should move throughout the movement.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Lying_Leg_Curls
Adjust the machine lever to fit your height and lie face down on the leg curl machine with the pad of the lever on the back of your legs (just a few inches under the calves). Tip: Preferably use a leg curl machine that is angled as opposed to flat since an angled position is more favorable for hamstrings recruitment.
Keeping the torso flat on the bench, ensure your legs are fully stretched and grab the side handles of the machine. Position your toes straight (or you can also use any of the other two stances described on the foot positioning section). This will be your starting position.
As you exhale, curl your legs up as far as possible without lifting the upper legs from the pad. Once you hit the fully contracted position, hold it for a second.
As you inhale, bring the legs back to the initial position. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Lying_Machine_Squat
Adjust the leg machine to a height that will allow you to get inside it with your knees bent and the thighs slightly below parallel.
Once you select the weight, position yourself inside the machine face up with the knees bent and thighs slightly below parallel to the platform. Make sure that the knees do not go past the toes. The angle created between the hamstrings and the calves should be one that is slightly less than 90 degrees (since your starting position requires you to start slightly below parallel). Your back and your head should be resting on the machine while your shoulders are pressed under the shoulder pads.
Place your hands by the handles and position your feet slightly pointing out at a shoulder width position. This will be your starting position.
While pressing with the balls of the feet as you breathe out, make your whole body erect as you squeeze the quads. Hold the contracted position for a second. Tip: Since you are starting below parallel, you can opt to use your hands to help you up by pressing on your thighs only on the first repetition.
Slowly squat down as you inhale but instead of going all the way down to the starting position, just stop once your thighs are parallel to the platform. The angle between your hamstrings and calves should be a 90-degree angle.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Lying_One-Arm_Lateral_Raise
While holding a dumbbell in one hand, lay with your chest down on a flat bench. The other hand can be used to hold to the leg of the bench for stability.
Position the palm of the hand that is holding the dumbbell in a neutral manner (palms facing your torso) as you keep the arm extended with the elbow slightly bent. This will be your starting position.
Now raise the arm with the dumbbell to the side until your elbow is at shoulder height and your arm is roughly parallel to the floor as you exhale. Tip: Maintain your arm perpendicular to the torso while keeping your arm extended throughout the movement. Also, keep the contraction at the top for a second.
Slowly lower the dumbbell to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Lying_Prone_Quadriceps
Lay face down on the floor with your partner kneeling beside you. Flex one knee and raise that leg off the ground, attempting to touch your glutes with your foot. Your partner should hold the knee and ankle. This will be your starting position.
Attempt to extend your knee while your partner prevents any actual movement.
After 10-20 seconds, relax your muscles as your partner gently pushes the foot towards your glutes, further stretching the quadriceps and hip flexors.
After 10-20 seconds, switch sides.
@Lying_Rear_Delt_Raise
While holding a dumbbell in each hand, lay with your chest down on a flat bench.
Position the palms of the hands in a neutral manner (palms facing your torso) as you keep the arms extended with the elbows slightly bent. This will be your starting position.
Now raise the arms to the side until your elbows are at shoulder height and your arms are roughly parallel to the floor as you exhale. Tip: Maintain your arms perpendicular to the torso while keeping them extended throughout the movement. Also, keep the contraction at the top for a second.
Slowly lower the dumbbells to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions and then switch to the other arm.
@Lying_Supine_Dumbbell_Curl
Lie down on a flat bench face up while holding a dumbbell in each arm on top of your thighs.
Bring the dumbbells to the sides with the arms extended and the palms of the hands facing your thighs (neutral grip).
While keeping the arms close to your torso and elbows in, slowly lower your arms (as you keep them extended with a slight bend at the elbows) as far down towards the floor as you can go. Once you cannot go down any further, lock your upper arms in that position and that will be your starting position.
As you breathe out, slowly begin to curl the weights up as you simultaneously rotate your wrists so that the palms of the hands face up. Continue curling the weight until your biceps are fully contracted and squeeze hard at the top position for a second. Tip: Only the forearms should move. Upper arms should remain stationary and elbows should stay in throughout the movement.
Return back to the starting position very slowly.
@Lying_T-Bar_Row
Load up the T-bar Row Machine with the desired weight and adjust the leg height so that your upper chest is at the top of the pad. Tip: In some machines all you can do is stand on the appropriate step that allows you to be at a height that has the upper chest at the top of the pad.
Lay face down on the pad and grab the handles. You can either use a palms down, palms up, or palms in position depending on what part of your back you want to emphasize.
Lift the bar off the rack and extend your arms in front of you. This will be your starting position.
As you exhale slowly pull the weight up and squeeze your back at the top of the movement. Tip: Keep the upper arms as close to the torso as possible throughout the movement in order to better engage the back muscles. Also, do not lift your body off of the pad at any time and refrain from using the biceps to lift the weight.
After a second contraction at the top of the movement, as you inhale, slowly go back down to the starting position.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Lying_Triceps_Press
Lie on a flat bench with either an e-z bar (my preference) or a straight bar placed on the floor behind your head and your feet on the floor.
Grab the bar behind you, using a medium overhand (pronated) grip, and raise the bar in front of you at arms length. Tip: The arms should be perpendicular to the torso and the floor. The elbows should be tucked in. This is the starting position.
As you breathe in, slowly lower the weight until the bar lightly touches your forehead while keeping the upper arms and elbows stationary.
At that point, use the triceps to bring the weight back up to the starting position as you breathe out.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Machine_Bench_Press
Sit down on the Chest Press Machine and select the weight.
Step on the lever provided by the machine since it will help you to bring the handles forward so that you can grab the handles and fully extend the arms.
Grab the handles with a palms-down grip and lift your elbows so that your upper arms are parallel to the floor to the sides of your torso. Tip: Your forearms will be pointing forward since you are grabbing the handles. Once you bring the handles forward and extend the arms you will be at the starting position.
Now bring the handles back towards you as you breathe in.
Push the handles away from you as you flex your pecs and you breathe out. Hold the contraction for a second before going back to the starting position.
Repeat for the recommended amount of reps.
When finished step on the lever again and slowly get the handles back to their original place.
@Machine_Bicep_Curl
Adjust the seat to the appropriate height and make your weight selection. Place your upper arms against the pads and grasp the handles. This will be your starting position.
Perform the movement by flexing the elbow, pulling your lower arm towards your upper arm.
Pause at the top of the movement, and then slowly return the weight to the starting position.
Avoid returning the weight all the way to the stops until the set is complete to keep tension on the muscles being worked.
@Machine_Preacher_Curls
Sit down on the Preacher Curl Machine and select the weight.
Place the back of your upper arms (your triceps) on the preacher pad provided and grab the handles using an underhand grip (palms facing up). Tip: Make sure that when you place the arms on the pad you keep the elbows in. This will be your starting position.
Now lift the handles as you exhale and you contract the biceps. At the top of the position make sure that you hold the contraction for a second. Tip: Only the forearms should move. The upper arms should remain stationary and on the pad at all times.
Lower the handles slowly back to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Machine_Shoulder_Military_Press
Sit down on the Shoulder Press Machine and select the weight.
Grab the handles to your sides as you keep the elbows bent and in line with your torso. This will be your starting position.
Now lift the handles as you exhale and you extend the arms fully. At the top of the position make sure that you hold the contraction for a second.
Lower the handles slowly back to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Machine_Triceps_Extension
Adjust the seat to the appropriate height and make your weight selection. Place your upper arms against the pads and grasp the handles. This will be your starting position.
Perform the movement by extending the elbow, pulling your lower arm away from your upper arm.
Pause at the completion of the movement, and then slowly return the weight to the starting position.
Avoid returning the weight all the way to the stops until the set is complete to keep tension on the muscles being worked.
@Medicine_Ball_Chest_Pass
You will need a partner for this exercise. Lacking one, this movement can be performed against a wall.
Begin facing your partner holding the medicine ball at your torso with both hands.
Pull the ball to your chest, and reverse the motion by extending through the elbows. For sports applications, you can take a step as you throw.
Your partner should catch the ball, and throw it back to you.
Receive the throw with both hands at chest height.
@Medicine_Ball_Full_Twist
For this exercise you will need a medicine ball and a partner. Stand back to back with your partner, spaced 2-3 feet apart. This will be your starting position.
Hold the ball in front of the trunk. Open the hips and turn the shoulders at the same time as your partner.
For full rotation, you and your partner should twist in the same direction, i.e. counter-clockwise.
Pass the ball to your partner, and both of you can now twist in the opposite direction to repeat the procedure.
@Medicine_Ball_Scoop_Throw
Assume a semisquat stance with a medicine ball in your hands. Your arms should hang so the ball is near your feet.
Begin by thrusting the hips forward as you extend through the legs, jumping up.
As you do, swing your arms up and over your head, keeping them extended, releasing the ball at the peak of your movement. The goal is to throw the ball the greatest distance behind you.
@Middle_Back_Shrug
Lie facedown on an incline bench while holding a dumbbell in each hand. Your arms should be fully extended hanging down and pointing towards the floor. The palms of your hands should be facing each other. This will be your starting position.
As you exhale, squeeze your shoulder blades together and hold the contraction for a full second. Tip: This movement is just like the reverse action of a hug, or trying to perform rear laterals as if you had no arms.
As you inhale go back to the starting position.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Middle_Back_Stretch
Stand so your feet are shoulder width apart and your hands are on your hips.
Twist at your waist until you feel a stretch. Hold for 10 to 15 seconds, then twist to the other side.
@Mixed_Grip_Chin
Using a spacing that is just about 1 inch wider than shoulder width, grab a pull-up bar with the palms of one hand facing forward and the palms of the other hand facing towards you. This will be your starting position.
Now start to pull yourself up as you exhale. Tip: With the arm that has the palms facing up concentrate on using the back muscles in order to perform the movement. The elbow of that arm should remain close to the torso. With the other arm that has the palms facing forward, the elbows will be away but in line with the torso. You will concentrate on using the lats to pull your body up.
After a second contraction at the top, start to slowly come down as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
On the following set, switch grips; so if you had the right hand with the palms facing you and the left one with the palms facing forward, on the next set you will have the palms facing forward for the right hand and facing you for the left.
@Monster_Walk
Place a band around both ankles and another around both knees. There should be enough tension that they are tight when your feet are shoulder width apart.
To begin, take short steps forward alternating your left and right foot.
After several steps, do just the opposite and walk backward to where you started.
@Mountain_Climbers
Begin in a pushup position, with your weight supported by your hands and toes. Flexing the knee and hip, bring one leg until the knee is approximately under the hip. This will be your starting position.
Explosively reverse the positions of your legs, extending the bent leg until the leg is straight and supported by the toe, and bringing the other foot up with the hip and knee flexed. Repeat in an alternating fashion for 20-30 seconds.
@Moving_Claw_Series
This move helps prepare your running form to help you excel at sprinting. As you run, be sure to flex the knee, aiming to kick your glutes as the hip extends.
Reload the quad as the leg moves back forward, attacking the ground on the next step.
Ensure that as you run, you block with the arms, punching through in a rapid 1-2 motion.
@Muscle_Snatch
Begin with a loaded barbell held at the mid thigh position with a wide grip. The feet should be directly below the hips, with the feet turned out as needed. Lower the hips, with the chest up and the head looking forward. The shoulders should be just in front of the bar. This will be the starting position.
Begin the pull by driving through the front of the heels, raising the bar. Transition into the second pull by extending through the hips knees and ankles, driving the bar up as quickly as possible. The bar should be close to the body.
Continue raising the bar to the overhead position, without rebending the knees.
@Muscle_Up
Grip the rings using a false grip, with the base of your palms on top of the rings. Initiate a pull up by pulling the elbows down to your side, flexing the elbows.
As you reach the top position of the pull-up, pull the rings to your armpits as you roll your shoulders forward, allowing your elbows to move straight back behind you. This puts you into the proper position to continue into the dip portion of the movement.
Maintaining control and stability, extend through the elbow to complete the motion.
Use care when lowering yourself to the ground.
@Narrow_Stance_Hack_Squats
Place the back of your torso against the back pad of the machine and hook your shoulders under the shoulder pads provided.
Position your legs in the platform using a less than shoulder width narrow stance with the toes slightly pointed out. Your feet should be around 3 inches or less apart. Tip: Keep your head up at all times and also maintain the back on the pad at all times.
Place your arms on the side handles of the machine and disengage the safety bars (which on most designs is done by moving the side handles from a facing front position to a diagonal position).
Now straighten your legs without locking the knees. This will be your starting position.
Begin to slowly lower the unit by bending the knees as you maintain a straight posture with the head up (back on the pad at all times). Continue down until the angle between the upper leg and the calves becomes slightly less than 90-degrees (which is the point in which the upper legs are below parallel to the floor). Inhale as you perform this portion of the movement.
Begin to raise the unit as you exhale by pushing the floor with mainly with the heels of your feet as you straighten the legs again and go back to the starting position.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Narrow_Stance_Leg_Press
Using a leg press machine, sit down on the machine and place your legs on the platform directly in front of you at a less-than-shoulder-width narrow stance with the toes slightly pointed out. Your feet should be around 3 inches or less apart. Tip: Keep your head up at all times and also maintain the back on the pad at all times.
Lower the safety bars holding the weighted platform in place and press the platform all the way up until your legs are fully extended in front of you. Tip: Make sure that you do not lock your knees. Your torso and the legs should make a perfect 90-degree angle. This will be your starting position.
As you inhale, slowly lower the platform until your upper and lower legs make a 90-degree angle.
Pushing mainly with the heels of your feet and using the quadriceps go back to the starting position as you exhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions and ensure to lock the safety pins properly once you are done. You do not want that platform falling on you fully loaded.
@Narrow_Stance_Squats
This exercise is best performed inside a squat rack for safety purposes. To begin, first set the bar on a rack that best matches your height. Once the correct height is chosen and the bar is loaded, step under the bar and place the back of your shoulders (slightly below the neck) across it.
Hold on to the bar using both arms at each side and lift it off the rack by first pushing with your legs and at the same time straightening your torso.
Step away from the rack and position your legs using a less-than-shoulder-width narrow stance with the toes slightly pointed out. Feet should be around 3-6 inches apart. Keep your head up at all times (looking down will get you off balance) and maintain a straight back. This will be your starting position. (Note: For the purposes of this discussion we will use the medium stance described above which targets overall development; however you can choose any of the three stances discussed in the foot stances section).
Begin to slowly lower the bar by bending the knees as you maintain a straight posture with the head up. Continue down until the angle between the upper leg and the calves becomes slightly less than 90-degrees (which is the point in which the upper legs are below parallel to the floor). Inhale as you perform this portion of the movement. Tip: If you performed the exercise correctly, the front of the knees should make an imaginary straight line with the toes that is perpendicular to the front. If your knees are past that imaginary line (if they are past your toes) then you are placing undue stress on the knee and the exercise has been performed incorrectly.
Begin to raise the bar as you exhale by pushing the floor with the heel of your foot mainly as you straighten the legs again and go back to the starting position.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Natural_Glute_Ham_Raise
Using the leg pad of a lat pulldown machine or a preacher bench, position yourself so that your ankles are under the pads, knees on the seat, and you are facing away from the machine. You should be upright and maintaining good posture.
This will be your starting position. Lower yourself under control until your knees are almost completely straight.
Remaining in control, raise yourself back up to the starting position.
If you are unable to complete a rep, use a band, a partner, or push off of a box to aid in completing a repetition.
@Neck_Press
Lie back on a flat bench. Using a medium-width grip (a grip that creates a 90-degree angle in the middle of the movement between the forearms and the upper arms), lift the bar from the rack and hold it straight over your neck with your arms locked. This will be your starting position.
As you breathe in, come down slowly until you feel the bar on your neck.
After a second pause, bring the bar back to the starting position as you breathe out and push the bar using your chest muscles. Lock your arms and squeeze your chest in the contracted position, hold for a second and then start coming down slowly again. Tip: It should take at least twice as long to go down than to come up).
Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
When you are done, place the bar back in the rack.
@Neck-SMR
Using a muscle roller or a rolling pin, place the roller behind your head and against your neck. Make sure that you do not place the roller directly against the spine, but turned slightly so that the roller is pressed against the muscles to either side of the spine. This will be your starting position.
Starting at the top of your neck, slowly roll down the muscles of your neck, pausing at points of tension for 10-30 seconds.