@Prowler_Sprint
Place your sled on an appropriate surface, loaded to a suitable weight. The sled should provide enough resistance to require effort, but not so heavy that you are significantly slowed down.
You may use the upright or the low handles for this exercise. Place your hands on the handles with your arms extended, leaning into the implement.
With good posture, drive through the ground with alternating, short steps. Move as fast as you can for a short distance.
@Pull_Through
Begin standing a few feet in front of a low pulley with a rope or handle attached. Face away from the machine, straddling the cable, with your feet set wide apart.
Begin the movement by reaching through your legs as far as possible, bending at the hips. Keep your knees slightly bent. Keeping your arms straight, extend through the hip to stand straight up. Avoid pulling upward through the shoulders; all of the motion should originate through the hips.
@Pullups
Grab the pull-up bar with the palms facing forward using the prescribed grip. Note on grips: For a wide grip, your hands need to be spaced out at a distance wider than your shoulder width. For a medium grip, your hands need to be spaced out at a distance equal to your shoulder width and for a close grip at a distance smaller than your shoulder width.
As you have both arms extended in front of you holding the bar at the chosen grip width, bring your torso back around 30 degrees or so while creating a curvature on your lower back and sticking your chest out. This is your starting position.
Pull your torso up until the bar touches your upper chest by drawing the shoulders and the upper arms down and back. Exhale as you perform this portion of the movement. Tip: Concentrate on squeezing the back muscles once you reach the full contracted position. The upper torso should remain stationary as it moves through space and only the arms should move. The forearms should do no other work other than hold the bar.
After a second on the contracted position, start to inhale and slowly lower your torso back to the starting position when your arms are fully extended and the lats are fully stretched.
Repeat this motion for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
@Push_Press

@Push_Press_-_Behind_the_Neck
Standing with the weight racked on the back of the shoulders, begin with the dip. With your feet directly under your hips, flex the knees without moving the hips backward. Go down only slightly, and reverse direction as powerfully as possible. Drive through the heels create as much speed and force as possible, moving the bar in a vertical path.
Using the momentum generated, finish pressing the weight overhead be extending through the arms.
Return to the starting position, using your legs to absorb the impact.
@Push_Up_to_Side_Plank
Get into pushup position on the toes with your hands just outside of shoulder width.
Perform a pushup by allowing the elbows to flex. As you descend, keep your body straight.
Do one pushup and as you come up, shift your weight on the left side of the body, twist to the side while bringing the right arm up towards the ceiling in a side plank.
Lower the arm back to the floor for another pushup and then twist to the other side.
Repeat the series, alternating each side, for 10 or more reps.
@Push-Up_Wide
With your hands wide apart, support your body on your toes and hands in a plank position. Your elbows should be extended and your body straight. Do not allow your hips to sag. This will be your starting position.
To begin, allow the elbows to flex, lowering your chest to the floor as you inhale.
Using your pectoral muscles, press your upper body back up to the starting position by extending the elbows. Exhale as you perform this step.
After pausing at the contracted position, repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
@Pushups
Lie on the floor face down and place your hands about 36 inches apart while holding your torso up at arms length.
Next, lower yourself downward until your chest almost touches the floor as you inhale.
Now breathe out and press your upper body back up to the starting position while squeezing your chest.
After a brief pause at the top contracted position, you can begin to lower yourself downward again for as many repetitions as needed.
@Push-Ups_-_Close_Triceps_Position
Lie on the floor face down and place your hands closer than shoulder width for a close hand position. Make sure that you are holding your torso up at arms' length.
Lower yourself until your chest almost touches the floor as you inhale.
Using your triceps and some of your pectoral muscles, press your upper body back up to the starting position and squeeze your chest. Breathe out as you perform this step.
After a second pause at the contracted position, repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
@Pushups_Close_and_Wide_Hand_Positions
Lie on the floor face down and body straight with your toes on the floor and the hands wider than shoulder width for a wide hand position and closer than shoulder width for a close hand position. Make sure you are holding your torso up at arms length.
Lower yourself until your chest almost touches the floor as you inhale.
Using your pectoral muscles, press your upper body back up to the starting position and squeeze your chest. Breathe out as you perform this step.
After a second pause at the contracted position, repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
@Push-Ups_With_Feet_Elevated
Lie on the floor face down and place your hands about 36 inches apart from each other holding your torso up at arms length.
Place your toes on top of a flat bench. This will allow your body to be elevated. Note: The higher the elevation of the flat bench, the higher the resistance of the exercise is.
Lower yourself until your chest almost touches the floor as you inhale.
Using your pectoral muscles, press your upper body back up to the starting position and squeeze your chest. Breathe out as you perform this step.
After a second pause at the contracted position, repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
@Push-Ups_With_Feet_On_An_Exercise_Ball
Lie on the floor face down and place your hands about 36 inches apart from each other holding your torso up at arms length.
Place your toes on top of an exercise ball. This will allow your body to be elevated.
Lower yourself until your chest almost touches the floor as you inhale.
Using your pectoral muscles, press your upper body back up to the starting position and squeeze your chest. Breathe out as you perform this step.
After a second pause at the contracted position, repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
@Pyramid
Start off by rolling your torso forward onto the ball so your hips rest on top of the ball and become the highest point of your body.
Rest your hands and feet on the floor. Your arms and legs can be slightly bent or straight, depending on the size of the ball, your flexibility, and the length of your limbs. This also helps develop stabilizing strength in your torso and shoulders.
@Quad_Stretch
Lay on your side. Loop a belt, rope, or band around your top foot. Flex the knee and extend your hip, attempting to touch your glutes with your foot, and holding the belt with your hands. This will be your starting position.
With the belt being held over the shoulder or overhead, gently pull to increase the stretch in the quadriceps. Hold for 10-20 seconds, and then switch sides.
@Quadriceps-SMR
Lay facedown on the floor with your weight supported by your hands or forearms. Place a foam roll underneath one leg on the quadriceps, and keep the foot off of the ground. Make sure to relax the leg as much as possible. This will be your starting position.
Shifting as much weight onto the leg to be stretched as is tolerable, roll over the foam from above the knee to below the hip, holding points of tension for 10-30 seconds. Switch sides.
@Quick_Leap
You will need a box for this exerise.
Begin facing the box standing 1-2 feet from its edge.
By utilizing your hips, hop onto the box, landing on both legs. Ensure that you land with your legs bent and your feet flat.
Immediately upon landing, fully extend through the entire body and swing your arms overhead to explode off of the box. Use your legs to absorb the impact of landing.
@Rack_Delivery
This drill teaches the delivery of the barbell to the rack position on the shoulders. Begin holding a bar in the scarecrow position, with the upper arms parallel to the floor, and the forearms hanging down. Use a hook grip, with your fingers wrapped over your thumbs.
Begin by rotating the elbows around the bar, delivering the bar to the shoulders. As your elbows come forward, relax your grip. The shoulders should be protracted, providing a shelf for the bar, which should lightly contact the throat.
It is important that the bar stay close to the body at all times, as with a heavier load any distance will result in an unwanted collision. As the movement becomes smoother, speed and load can be increased before progressing further.
@Rack_Pull_with_Bands
Set up in a power rack with the bar on the pins. The pins should be set to the desired point; just below the knees, just above, or in the mid thigh position. Attach bands to the base of the rack, or secure them with dumbbells. Attach the other end to the bar. You may need to choke the bands to provide tension.
Position yourself against the bar in proper deadlifting position. Your feet should be under your hips, your grip shoulder width, back arched, and hips back to engage the hamstrings. Since the weight is typically heavy, you may use a mixed grip, a hook grip, or use straps to aid in holding the weight.
With your head looking forward, extend through the hips and knees, pulling the weight up and back until lockout. Be sure to pull your shoulders back as you complete the movement. Return the weight to the pins and repeat.
@Rack_Pulls
Set up in a power rack with the bar on the pins. The pins should be set to the desired point; just below the knees, just above, or in the mid thigh position. Position yourself against the bar in proper deadlifting position. Your feet should be under your hips, your grip shoulder width, back arched, and hips back to engage the hamstrings. Since the weight is typically heavy, you may use a mixed grip, a hook grip, or use straps to aid in holding the weight.
With your head looking forward, extend through the hips and knees, pulling the weight up and back until lockout. Be sure to pull your shoulders back as you complete the movement.
Return the weight to the pins and repeat.
@Rear_Leg_Raises
Place yourself on your hands knees on an exercise mat. Your head should be looking forward and the bend of the knees should create a 90-degree angle between the hamstrings and the calves. This will be your starting position.
Extend one leg up and behind you. The knee and hip should both extend. Repeat for 5-10 repetitions, and then switch sides.
@Recumbent_Bike
To begin, seat yourself on the bike and adjust the seat to your height.
Select the desired option from the menu. You may have to start pedaling to turn it on. You can use the manual setting, or you can select a program to use. Typically, you can enter your age and weight to estimate the amount of calories burned during exercise. The level of resistance can be changed throughout the workout. The handles can be used to monitor your heart rate to help you stay at an appropriate intensity.
Recumbent bikes offer convenience, cardiovascular benefits, and have less impact than other activities. A 150 lb person will burn about 230 calories cycling at a moderate rate for 30 minutes, compared to 450 calories or more running.
@Return_Push_from_Stance
You will need a partner for this drill.
Begin in an athletic 2 or 3 point stance.
At the signal, move into a position to receive the pass from your partner.
Catch the medicine ball with both hands and immediately throw it back to your partner.
You can modify this drill by running different routes.
@Reverse_Band_Bench_Press
Position a bench inside a power rack, with the bar set to the correct height. Begin by anchoring bands either to band pegs or to the top of the rack. Ensure that you will be position properly under the bands. Attach the other end to the barbell.
Lie on the bench, tuck your feet underneath you and arch your back. Using the bar to help support your weight, lift your shoulder off the bench and retract them, squeezing the shoulder blades together. Use your feet to drive your traps into the bench. Maintain this tight body position throughout the movement. However wide your grip, it should cover the ring on the bar.
Pull the bar out of the rack without protracting your shoulders. Focus on squeezing the bar and trying to pull it apart. Lower the bar to your lower chest or upper stomach. The bar, wrist, and elbow should stay in line at all times.
Pause when the barbell touches your torso, and then drive the bar up with as much force as possible. The elbows should be tucked in until lockout.
@Reverse_Band_Box_Squat
Begin in a power rack with a box at the appropriate height behind you. Set up the bands either on band pegs or attached to the top of the rack, ensuring they will be directly above the bar during the squat. Attach the other end to the bar.
Begin by stepping under the bar and placing it across the back of the shoulders. Squeeze your shoulder blades together and rotate your elbows forward, attempting to bend the bar across your shoulders. Remove the bar from the rack, creating a tight arch in your lower back, and step back into position. Place your feet wider for more emphasis on the back, glutes, adductors, and hamstrings, or closer together for more quad development. Keep your head facing forward.
With your back, shoulders, and core tight, push your knees and butt out and you begin your descent. Sit back with your hips until you are seated on the box. Ideally, your shins should be perpendicular to the ground. Pause when you reach the box, and relax the hip flexors. Never bounce off of a box.
Keeping the weight on your heels and pushing your feet and knees out, drive upward off of the box as you lead the movement with your head. Continue upward, maintaining tightness head to toe. Use care to return the barbell to the rack.
@Reverse_Band_Deadlift
Set the bar up in a power rack. Attach bands to the top of the rack, using either bands pegs or the frame itself. Attach the other end of the bands to the bar.
Approach the bar so that it is centered over your feet. You feet should be about hip width apart. Bend at the hip to grip the bar at shoulder width, allowing your shoulder blades to protract. Typically, you would use an overhand grip or an over/under grip on heavier sets.
With your feet, and your grip set, take a big breath and then lower your hips and bend the knees until your shins contact the bar. Look forward with your head, keep your chest up and your back arched, and begin driving through the heels to move the weight upward.
After the bar passes the knees, aggressively pull the bar back, pulling your shoulder blades together as you drive your hips forward into the bar.
Lower the bar by bending at the hips and guiding it to the floor.
@Reverse_Band_Power_Squat
Begin in a power rack with the pins and bar set at the appropriate height. After loading the bar, attach bands to the top of the rack, using either pegs or the frame itself. Attach the other end of the bands to the bar.
Begin by stepping under the bar and placing it across the back of the shoulders. Squeeze your shoulder blades together and rotate your elbows forward, attempting to bend the bar across your shoulders. Remove the bar from the rack, creating a tight arch in your lower back, and step back into position. Place your feet wide for more emphasis on the back, glutes, adductors, and hamstrings.
Keep your head facing forward. With your back, shoulders, and core tight, push your knees and butt out and you begin your descent. Sit back with your hips as much as possible. Ideally, your shins should be perpendicular to the ground. Lower bar position necessitates a greater torso lean to keep the bar over the heels. Continue until you break parallel, which is defined as the crease of the hip being in line with the top of the knee.
Keeping the weight on your heels and pushing your feet and knees out, drive upward as you lead the movement with your head. Continue upward, maintaining tightness head to toe, until you have returned to the starting position.
@Reverse_Band_Sumo_Deadlift
Begin with a bar loaded on the floor inside of a power rack. Attach bands to the top of the rack, using either pegs or the frame itself. Attach the other end to the barbell.
Approach the bar so that the bar intersects the middle of the feet. The feet should be set very wide, near the collars. Bend at the hips to grip the bar. The arms should be directly below the shoulders, inside the legs, and you can use a pronated grip, a mixed grip, or hook grip. Relax the shoulders, which in effect lengthens your arms.
Take a breath, and then lower your hips, looking forward with your head with your chest up. Drive through the floor, spreading your feet apart, with your weight on the back half of your feet. Extend through the hips and knees.
As the bar passes through the knees, lean back and drive the hips into the bar, pulling your shoulder blades together.
Return the weight to the ground by bending at the hips and controlling the weight on the way down.
@Reverse_Barbell_Curl
Stand up with your torso upright while holding a barbell at shoulder width with the elbows close to the torso. The palm of your hands should be facing down (pronated grip). This will be your starting position.
While holding the upper arms stationary, curl the weights while contracting the biceps as you breathe out. Only the forearms should move. Continue the movement until your biceps are fully contracted and the bar is at shoulder level. Hold the contracted position for a second as you squeeze the muscle.
Slowly begin to bring the bar back to starting position as your breathe in.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Reverse_Barbell_Preacher_Curls
Grab an EZ-bar using a shoulder width and palms down (pronated) grip.
Now place the upper part of both arms on top of the preacher bench and have your arms extended. This will be your starting position.
As you exhale, use the biceps to curl the weight up until your biceps are fully contracted and the barbell is at shoulder height. Squeeze the biceps hard for a second at the contracted position.
As you breathe in, slowly lower the barbell until your upper arms are extended and the biceps is fully stretched.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Reverse_Cable_Curl
Stand up with your torso upright while holding a bar attachment that is attached to a low pulley using a pronated (palms down) and shoulder width grip. Make sure also that you keep the elbows close to the torso. This will be your starting position.
While holding the upper arms stationary, curl the weights while contracting the biceps as you breathe out. Only the forearms should move. Continue the movement until your biceps are fully contracted and the bar is at shoulder level. Hold the contracted position for a second as you squeeze the muscle.
Slowly begin to bring the bar back to starting position as your breathe in.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Reverse_Crunch
Lie down on the floor with your legs fully extended and arms to the side of your torso with the palms on the floor. Your arms should be stationary for the entire exercise.
Move your legs up so that your thighs are perpendicular to the floor and feet are together and parallel to the floor. This is the starting position.
While inhaling, move your legs towards the torso as you roll your pelvis backwards and you raise your hips off the floor. At the end of this movement your knees will be touching your chest.
Hold the contraction for a second and move your legs back to the starting position while exhaling.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Reverse_Flyes
To begin, lie down on an incline bench with the chest and stomach pressing against the incline. Have the dumbbells in each hand with the palms facing each other (neutral grip).
Extend the arms in front of you so that they are perpendicular to the angle of the bench. The legs should be stationary while applying pressure with the ball of your toes. This is the starting position.
Maintaining the slight bend of the elbows, move the weights out and away from each other (to the side) in an arc motion while exhaling. Tip: Try to squeeze your shoulder blades together to get the best results from this exercise.
The arms should be elevated until they are parallel to the floor.
Feel the contraction and slowly lower the weights back down to the starting position while inhaling.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Reverse_Flyes_With_External_Rotation
To begin, lie down on an incline bench set at a 30-degree angle with the chest and stomach pressing against the incline.
Have the dumbbells in each hand with the palms facing down to the floor. Your arms should be in front of you so that they are perpendicular to the angle of the bench. Tip: Your elbows should have a slight bend. The legs should be stationary while applying pressure with the ball of your toes (your heels should not be touching the floor). This is the starting position.
Maintaining the slight bend of the elbows, move the weights out and away from each other in an arc motion while exhaling.
As you lift the weight, your wrist should externally rotate by 90-degrees so that you go from a palms down (pronated) grip to a palms facing each other (neutral) grip. Tip: Try to squeeze your shoulder blades together to get the best results from this exercise.
The arms should be elevated until they are level with the head.
Feel the contraction and slowly lower the weights back down to the starting position while inhaling.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Reverse_Grip_Bent-Over_Rows
Stand erect while holding a barbell with a supinated grip (palms facing up).
Bend your knees slightly and bring your torso forward, by bending at the waist, while keeping the back straight until it is almost parallel to the floor. Tip: Make sure that you keep the head up. The barbell should hang directly in front of you as your arms hang perpendicular to the floor and your torso. This is your starting position.
While keeping the torso stationary, lift the barbell as you breathe out, keeping the elbows close to the body and not doing any force with the forearm other than holding the weights. On the top contracted position, squeeze the back muscles and hold for a second.
Slowly lower the weight again to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Reverse_Grip_Triceps_Pushdown
Start by setting a bar attachment (straight or e-z) on a high pulley machine.
Facing the bar attachment, grab it with the palms facing up (supinated grip) at shoulder width. Lower the bar by using your lats until your arms are fully extended by your sides. Tip: Elbows should be in by your sides and your feet should be shoulder width apart from each other. This is the starting position.
Slowly elevate the bar attachment up as you inhale so it is aligned with your chest. Only the forearms should move and the elbows/upper arms should be stationary by your side at all times.
Then begin to lower the cable bar back down to the original staring position while exhaling and contracting the triceps hard.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Reverse_Hyperextension
Place your feet between the pads after loading an appropriate weight. Lay on the top pad, allowing your hips to hang off the back, while grasping the handles to hold your position.
To begin the movement, flex the hips, pulling the legs forward.
Reverse the motion by extending the hips, kicking the leg back. It is very important not to over-extend the hip on this movement, stopping short of your full range of motion.
Return by again flexing the hip, pulling the carriage forward as far as you can.
Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
@Reverse_Machine_Flyes
Adjust the handles so that they are fully to the rear. Make an appropriate weight selection and adjust the seat height so the handles are at shoulder level. Grasp the handles with your hands facing inwards. This will be your starting position.
In a semicircular motion, pull your hands out to your side and back, contracting your rear delts.
Keep your arms slightly bent throughout the movement, with all of the motion occurring at the shoulder joint.
Pause at the rear of the movement, and slowly return the weight to the starting position.
@Reverse_Plate_Curls
Start by standing straight with a weighted plate held by both hands and arms fully extended. Use a pronated grip (palms facing down) and make sure your fingers grab the rough side of the plate while your thumb grabs the smooth side. Note: For the best results, grab the weighted plate at an 11:00 and 1:00 o'clock position.
Your feet should be shoulder width apart from each other and the weighted plate should be near the groin area. This is the starting position.
Slowly lift the plate up while keeping the elbows in and the upper arms stationary until your biceps and forearms touch while exhaling. The plate should be evenly aligned with your torso at this point.
Feel the contraction for a second and begin to lower the weight back down to the starting position while inhaling
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Reverse_Triceps_Bench_Press
Lie back on a flat bench. Using a close, supinated grip (around shoulder width), lift the bar from the rack and hold it straight over you with your arms locked extended in front of you and perpendicular to the floor. This will be your starting position.
As you breathe in, come down slowly until you feel the bar on your middle chest. Tip: Make sure that as opposed to a regular bench press, you keep the elbows close to the torso at all times in order to maximize triceps involvement.
After a second pause, bring the bar back to the starting position as you breathe out and push the bar using your triceps muscles. Lock your arms in the contracted position, hold for a second and then start coming down slowly again. Tip: It should take at least twice as long to go down than to come up.
Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
When you are done, place the bar back in the rack.
@Rhomboids-SMR
Lay down with your back on the floor. Place a foam roll underneath your upper back, and cross your arms in front of you, protracting your shoulders. This will be your starting position.
Raise your hips off of the ground, placing your weight onto the foam roll. Shift your weight to one side at a time, rolling over your middle and upper back. Pause at points of tension for 10-30 seconds.
@Rickshaw_Carry
Position the frame at the starting point, and load with the appropriate weight. Standing in the center of the frame, begin by gripping the handles and driving through your heels to lift the frame. Ensure your chest and head are up and your back is straight.
Immediately begin walking briskly with quick, controlled steps. Keep your chest up and head forward, and make sure you continue breathing. Bring the frame to the ground after you have reached the end point.
@Rickshaw_Deadlift
Load the frame with the desired weight. Center yourself between the handles. You feet should be about hip width apart. Bend at the hips to grip the handles, allowing your shoulder blades to protract.
With your feet and your grip set, take a big breath and then lower your hips and flex the knees. Look forward with your head, keep your chest up and your back arched, and begin driving through the heels to move the weight upward. As the weight comes up, pull your shoulder blades together as you drive your hips forward.
Lower the weight by bending at the hips and guiding it to the ground.
@Ring_Dips
Grip a ring in each hand, and then take a small jump to help you get into the starting position with your arms locked out.
Begin by flexing the elbow, lowering your body until your arms break 90 degrees. Avoid swinging, and maintain good posture throughout the descent.
Reverse the motion by extending the elbow, pushing yourself back up into the starting position.
Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
@Rocket_Jump
Begin in a relaxed stance with your feet shoulder width apart and hold your arms close to the body.
To initiate the move, squat down halfway and explode back up as high as possible.
Fully extend your entire body, reaching overhead as far as possible. As you land, absorb your impact through the legs.
@Rocking_Standing_Calf_Raise
This exercise is best performed inside a squat rack for safety purposes. To begin, first set the bar on a rack that best matches your height. Once the correct height is chosen and the bar is loaded, step under the bar and place it on the back of your shoulders (slightly below the neck).
Hold on to the bar using both arms at each side and lift it off the rack by first pushing with your legs and at the same time straightening your torso.
Step away from the rack and position your legs using a shoulder width medium stance with the toes slightly pointed out. Keep your head up at all times as looking down will get you off balance. Also maintain a straight back and keep the knees with a slight bend; never locked. This will be your starting position.
Raise your heels as you breathe out by extending your ankles as high as possible and flexing your calf. Ensure that the knee is kept stationary at all times. There should be no bending (other than the slight initial bend we created during positioning) at any time. Hold the contracted position by a second before you start to go back down.
Go back slowly to the starting position as you breathe in by lowering your heels as you bend the ankles until calves are stretched.
Now lift your toes by contracting the tibia muscles in the front of the calves as you breathe out.
Hold for a second and bring them back down as you breathe in.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Rocky_Pull-Ups_Pulldowns
Grab the pull-up bar with the palms facing forward using a wide grip.
As you have both arms extended in front of you holding the bar at the chosen grip width, bring your torso back around 30 degrees or so while creating a curvature on your lower back and sticking your chest out. This is your starting position.
Pull your torso up until the bar touches your upper chest by drawing the shoulders and the upper arms down and back. Exhale as you perform this portion of the movement. Tip: Concentrate on squeezing the back muscles once you reach the full contracted position. The upper torso should remain stationary as it moves through space and only the arms should move. The forearms should do no other work other than hold the bar.
After a second on the contracted position, start to inhale and slowly lower your torso back to the starting position when your arms are fully extended and the lats are fully stretched.
Now repeat the same movements as described above except this time your torso will remain straight as you go up and the bar will touch the back of the neck instead of the upper chest. Tip: Use the head to lean forward slightly as it will help you properly execute this portion of the exercise.
Once you have lowered yourself back down to the starting position, repeat the exercise for the prescribed amount of repetitions in your program.
@Romanian_Deadlift
Put a barbell in front of you on the ground and grab it using a pronated (palms facing down) grip that a little wider than shoulder width. Tip: Depending on the weight used, you may need wrist wraps to perform the exercise and also a raised platform in order to allow for better range of motion.
Bend the knees slightly and keep the shins vertical, hips back and back straight. This will be your starting position.
Keeping your back and arms completely straight at all times, use your hips to lift the bar as you exhale. Tip: The movement should not be fast but steady and under control.
Once you are standing completely straight up, lower the bar by pushing the hips back, only slightly bending the knees, unlike when squatting. Tip: Take a deep breath at the start of the movement and keep your chest up. Hold your breath as you lower and exhale as you complete the movement.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Romanian_Deadlift_from_Deficit
Begin standing while holding a bar at arm's length in front of you. You can stand on a raised platform to increase the range of motion.
Begin by flexing the knees slightly, and then flex at the hip, moving your butt back as far as possible, lowering the torso as far as flexibility allows. The back should remain in absolute extension at all times, and the bar should remain in contact with the legs. If done properly, there should be heavy tension felt in the hamstrings.
Reverse the motion to return to the starting position.
@Rope_Climb
Grab the rope with both hands above your head. Pull down on the rope as you take a small jump.
Wrap the rope around one leg, using your feet to pinch the rope. Reach up as high as possible with your arms, gripping the rope tightly.
Release the rope from your feet as you pull yourself up with your arms, bringing your knees towards your chest.
Resecure your feet on the rope, and then stand up to take another high hold on the rope. Continue until you reach the top of the rope.
To lower yourself, loosen the grip of your feet on the rope as you slide down using a hand over hand motion.
@Rope_Crunch
Kneel 1-2 feet in front of a cable system with a rope attached.
After selecting an appropriate weight, grasp the rope with both hands reaching overhead. Your torso should be upright in the starting position.
To begin, flex at the spine, attempting to bring your rib cage to your legs as you pull the cable down.
Pause at the bottom of the motion, and then slowly return to the starting position.
These can be done with twists or to the side to hit the obliques.
@Rope_Jumping
Hold an end of the rope in each hand. Position the rope behind you on the ground. Raise your arms up and turn the rope over your head bringing it down in front of you. When it reaches the ground, jump over it. Find a good turning pace that can be maintained. Different speeds and techniques can be used to introduce variation.
Rope jumping is exciting, challenges your coordination, and requires a lot of energy. A 150 lb person will burn about 350 calories jumping rope for 30 minutes, compared to over 450 calories running.
@Rope_Straight-Arm_Pulldown
Attach a rope to a high pulley and make your weight selection. Stand a couple feet back from the pulley with your feet staggered and take the rope with both hands. Lean forward from the hip, keeping your back straight, with your arms extended up in front of you. This will be your starting position.
Keeping your arms straight, extend the shoulder to pull the rope down to your thighs.
Pause at the bottom of the motion, squeezing your lats.
Return to the starting position without allowing the weight to fully rest on the stack.
@Round_The_World_Shoulder_Stretch
Stand up straight with your legs together, holding a bodybar or broomstick.
Hold the pole behind your hips with a wider than shoulder width grip. Your palms should be down and your thumbs facing out.
Slowly lift your arms up behind your head. Don't force it if it gets hard to lift further.
@Rowing_Stationary
To begin, seat yourself on the rower. Make sure that your heels are resting comfortably against the base of the foot pedals and that the straps are secured. Select the program that you wish to use, if applicable. Sit up straight and bend forward at the hips.
There are three phases of movement when using a rower. The first phase is when you come forward on the rower. Your knees are bent and against your chest. Your upper body is leaning slightly forward while still maintaining good posture. Next, push against the foot pedals and extend your legs while bringing your hands to your upper abdominal area, squeezing your shoulders back as you do so. To avoid straining your back, use primarily your leg and hip muscles.
The recovery phase simply involves straightening your arms, bending the knees, and bringing your body forward again as you transition back into the first phase.
@Runners_Stretch
It's easiest to get into this stretch if you start standing up, put one leg behind you, and slowly lower your torso down to the floor.
Keep the front heel on the floor (if it lifts up, scoot your other leg further back).
Place your hands on either side of your front leg. To get more out of this stretch, push your butt up toward the ceiling, and then gradually lower it back toward the floor. You'll Stretch the hip flexor of the back leg and the hamstring and buttocks of the front.
@Running_Treadmill
To begin, step onto the treadmill and select the desired option from the menu. Most treadmills have a manual setting, or you can select a program to run. Typically, you can enter your age and weight to estimate the amount of calories burned during exercise. Elevation can be adjusted to change the intensity of the workout.
Treadmills offer convenience, cardiovascular benefits, and usually have less impact than running outside. A 150 lb person will burn over 450 calories running 8 miles per hour for 30 minutes. Maintain proper posture as you run, and only hold onto the handles when necessary, such as when dismounting or checking your heart rate.
@Russian_Twist
Lie down on the floor placing your feet either under something that will not move or by having a partner hold them. Your legs should be bent at the knees.
Elevate your upper body so that it creates an imaginary V-shape with your thighs. Your arms should be fully extended in front of you perpendicular to your torso and with the hands clasped. This is the starting position.
Twist your torso to the right side until your arms are parallel with the floor while breathing out.
Hold the contraction for a second and move back to the starting position while breathing out. Now move to the opposite side performing the same techniques you applied to the right side.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Sandbag_Load
To load sandbags or other objects, begin with the implements placed a distance from the loading platform, typically 50 feet.
Begin by lifting the sandbag. Sandbags are extremely awkward, and the manner of lifting them can vary depending on the particular sandbag used. Reach as far around it as possible, extending through the hips and knees to pull it up high. Shouldering is usually not allowed.
Move as quickly as possible to the platform, and load it, extending through your hips, knees, and ankles to get it as high as possible. Place it onto the platform, ensuring it doesn't fall off.
Return to the starting position to retrieve the next sandbag, and repeat until the event is completed.
@Scapular_Pull-Up
Take a pronated grip on a pull-up bar.
From a hanging position, raise yourself a few inches without using your arms. Do this by depressing your shoulder girdle in a reverse shrugging motion.
Pause at the completion of the movement, and then slowly return to the starting position before performing more repetitions.
@Scissor_Kick
To begin, lie down with your back pressed against the floor or on an exercise mat (optional). Your arms should be fully extended to the sides with your palms facing down. Note: The arms should be stationary the entire time.
With a slight bend at the knees, lift your legs up so that your heels are about 6 inches off the ground. This is the starting position.
Now lift your left leg up to about a 45 degree angle while your right leg is lowered until the heel is about 2-3 inches from the ground.
Switch movements by raising your right leg up and lowering your left leg. Remember to breathe while performing this exercise.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Scissors_Jump
Assume a lunge stance position with one foot forward with the knee bent, and the rear knee nearly touching the ground.
Ensure that the front knee is over the midline of the foot. Extending through both legs, jump as high as possible, swinging your arms to gain lift.
As you jump as high as you can, switch the position of your legs, moving your front leg to the back and the rear leg to the front.
As you land, absorb the impact through the legs by adopting the lunge position, and repeat.
@Seated_Band_Hamstring_Curl
Secure a band close to the ground and place a bench a couple feet away from it.
Seat yourself on the bench and secure the band behind your ankles, beginning with your legs straight. This will be your starting position.
Flex the knees, bringing your feet towards the bench. You may need to lean back slightly to keep your feet from striking the floor.
Pause at the completion of the movement, and then slowly return to the starting position.
@Seated_Barbell_Military_Press
Sit on a Military Press Bench with a bar behind your head and either have a spotter give you the bar (better on the rotator cuff this way) or pick it up yourself carefully with a pronated grip (palms facing forward). Tip: Your grip should be wider than shoulder width and it should create a 90-degree angle between the forearm and the upper arm as the barbell goes down.
Once you pick up the barbell with the correct grip length, lift the bar up over your head by locking your arms. Hold at about shoulder level and slightly in front of your head. This is your starting position.
Lower the bar down to the collarbone slowly as you inhale.
Lift the bar back up to the starting position as you exhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Seated_Barbell_Twist
Start out by sitting at the end of a flat bench with a barbell placed on top of your thighs. Your feet should be shoulder width apart from each other.
Grip the bar with your palms facing down and make sure your hands are wider than shoulder width apart from each other. Begin to lift the barbell up over your head until your arms are fully extended.
Now lower the barbell behind your head until it is resting along the base of your neck. This is the starting position.
While keeping your feet and head stationary, move your waist from side to side so that your oblique muscles feel the contraction. Only move from side to side as far as your waist will allow you to go. Stretching or moving too far can cause an injury to occur. Tip: Use a slow and controlled motion.
Remember to breathe out while twisting your body to the side and in when moving back to the starting position.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Seated_Bent-Over_One-Arm_Dumbbell_Triceps_Extension
Sit down at the end of a flat bench with a dumbbell in one arm using a neutral grip (palms of the hand facing you).
Bend your knees slightly and bring your torso forward, by bending at the waist, while keeping the back straight until it is almost parallel to the floor. Make sure that you keep the head up.
The upper arm with the dumbbell should be close to the torso and aligned with it (lifted up until it is parallel to the floor while the forearms are pointing towards the floor as the hands hold the weights). Tip: There should be a 90-degree angle between the forearms and the upper arm. This is your starting position.
Keeping the upper arm stationary, use the triceps to lift the weight as you exhale until the forearm is parallel to the floor and the whole arm is extended. Like many other arm exercises, only the forearm moves.
After a second contraction at the top, slowly lower the dumbbell back to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
Switch arms and repeat the exercise.
@Seated_Bent-Over_Rear_Delt_Raise
Place a couple of dumbbells looking forward in front of a flat bench.
Sit on the end of the bench with your legs together and the dumbbells behind your calves.
Bend at the waist while keeping the back straight in order to pick up the dumbbells. The palms of your hands should be facing each other as you pick them. This will be your starting position.
Keeping your torso forward and stationary, and the arms slightly bent at the elbows, lift the dumbbells straight to the side until both arms are parallel to the floor. Exhale as you lift the weights. (Note: avoid swinging the torso or bringing the arms back as opposed to the side.)
After a one second contraction at the top, slowly lower the dumbbells back to the starting position.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Seated_Bent-Over_Two-Arm_Dumbbell_Triceps_Extension
Sit down at the end of a flat bench with a dumbbell in both arms using a neutral grip (palms of the hand facing you).
Bend your knees slightly and bring your torso forward, by bending at the waist, while keeping the back straight until it is almost parallel to the floor. Make sure that you keep the head up.
The upper arms with the dumbbells should be close to the torso and aligned with it (lifted up until they are parallel to the floor while the forearms are pointing towards the floor as the hands hold the weights). Tip: There should be a 90-degree angle between the forearms and the upper arm. This is your starting position.
Keeping the upper arms stationary, use the triceps to lift the weight as you exhale until the forearms are parallel to the floor and the whole arm is extended. Like many other arm exercises, only the forearm moves.
After a second contraction at the top, slowly lower the dumbbells back to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
@Seated_Biceps
Sit on the floor with your knees bent and your partner standing behind you. Extend your arms straight behind you with your palms facing each other. Your partner will hold your wrists for you. This will be the starting position.
Attempt to flex your elbows, while your partner prevents any actual movement.
After 10-20 seconds, relax your arms while your partner gently pulls your wrists up to stretch your biceps. Be sure to let your partner know when the stretch is appropriate to prevent injury or overstretching.
@Seated_Cable_Rows
For this exercise you will need access to a low pulley row machine with a V-bar. Note: The V-bar will enable you to have a neutral grip where the palms of your hands face each other. To get into the starting position, first sit down on the machine and place your feet on the front platform or crossbar provided making sure that your knees are slightly bent and not locked.
Lean over as you keep the natural alignment of your back and grab the V-bar handles.
With your arms extended pull back until your torso is at a 90-degree angle from your legs. Your back should be slightly arched and your chest should be sticking out. You should be feeling a nice stretch on your lats as you hold the bar in front of you. This is the starting position of the exercise.
Keeping the torso stationary, pull the handles back towards your torso while keeping the arms close to it until you touch the abdominals. Breathe out as you perform that movement. At that point you should be squeezing your back muscles hard. Hold that contraction for a second and slowly go back to the original position while breathing in.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Seated_Cable_Shoulder_Press
Adjust the weight to an appropriate amount and be seated, grasping the handles. Your upper arms should be about 90 degrees to the body, with your head and chest up. The elbows should also be bent to about 90 degrees. This will be your starting position.
Begin by extending through the elbow, pressing the handles together above your head.
After pausing at the top, return the handles to the starting position. Ensure that you maintain tension on the cables.
You can also execute this movement with your back off the pad and alternate hands.
@Seated_Calf_Raise
Sit on the machine and place your toes on the lower portion of the platform provided with the heels extending off. Choose the toe positioning of your choice (forward, in, or out) as per the beginning of this chapter.
Place your lower thighs under the lever pad, which will need to be adjusted according to the height of your thighs. Now place your hands on top of the lever pad in order to prevent it from slipping forward.
Lift the lever slightly by pushing your heels up and release the safety bar. This will be your starting position.
Slowly lower your heels by bending at the ankles until the calves are fully stretched. Inhale as you perform this movement.
Raise the heels by extending the ankles as high as possible as you contract the calves and breathe out. Hold the top contraction for a second.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Seated_Calf_Stretch
Sit up straight on an exercise mat.
Bend one knee and put that foot on the floor to stabilize the torso.
Straighten your other leg and flex your ankle.
Using a band, towel, or your hand if you can reach, pull the toes toward you. Hold for 10 to 20 seconds, then switch sides.
@Seated_Close-Grip_Concentration_Barbell_Curl
Sit down on a flat bench with a barbell or E-Z Bar in front of you in between your legs. Your legs should be spread with the knees bent and the feet on the floor.
Use your arms to pick the barbell up and place the back of your upper arms on top of your inner thighs (around three and a half inches away from the front of the knee). A supinated grip closer than shoulder width is needed to perform this exercise. Tip: Your arm should be extended at arms length and the barbell should be above the floor. This will be your starting position.
While holding the upper arms stationary, curl the weights forward while contracting the biceps as you breathe out. Only the forearms should move. Continue the movement until your biceps are fully contracted and the dumbbells are at shoulder level. Hold the contracted position for a second as you squeeze the biceps.
Slowly begin to bring the barbell back to starting position as your breathe in. Tip: Avoid swinging motions at any time.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Seated_Dumbbell_Curl
Sit on a flat bench with a dumbbell on each hand being held at arms length. The elbows should be close to the torso.
Rotate the palms of the hands so that they are facing your torso. This will be your starting position.
While holding the upper arm stationary, curl the weights and start twisting the wrists once the dumbbells pass your thighs so that the palms of your hands face forward at the end of the movement. Make sure that you contract the biceps as you breathe out and make sure that only the forearms move. Continue the movement until your biceps are fully contracted and the dumbbells are at shoulder level. Hold the contracted position for a second as you squeeze the biceps.
Slowly begin to bring the dumbbells back to the starting position as your breathe in and as you rotate the wrists back to a neutral grip.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Seated_Dumbbell_Inner_Biceps_Curl
Sit on the end of a flat bench with a dumbbell in each hand being held at arms length. The elbows should be close to the torso.
Rotate the palms of the hands so that they are facing inward in a neutral position. This will be your starting position.
While holding the upper arms stationary, curl the dumbbells out and up, turning the palms out as you lift and keeping your forearms in line with your outer deltoids. Tips:
Only the forearms should move. Continue the movement until your biceps are fully contracted and the dumbbells are at shoulder level. Hold the contracted position for a second as you squeeze the biceps.
Slowly begin to bring the dumbbells back to the starting position as your breathe in. Remember to rotate your arms as you lower the dumbbells so that you can switch back to a neutral grip.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Seated_Dumbbell_Palms-Down_Wrist_Curl
Start out by placing two dumbbells on the floor in front of a flat bench.
Sit down on the edge of the flat bench with your legs at about shoulder width apart. Make sure to keep your feet on the floor.
Use your arms to grab both of the dumbbells and bring them up so that your forearms are resting against your thighs with the palms of the hands facing down. Your wrists should be hanging over the edge of your thighs.
Start out by curling your wrist upwards and exhaling.
Slowly lower your wrists back down to the starting position while inhaling. Make sure to inhale during this part of the exercise. Tip: Your forearms should be stationary as your wrist is the only movement needed to perform this exercise.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
When finished, simply lower the dumbbells to the floor.
@Seated_Dumbbell_Palms-Up_Wrist_Curl
Start out by placing two dumbbells on the floor in front of a flat bench.
Sit down on the edge of the flat bench with your legs at about shoulder width apart. Make sure to keep your feet on the floor.
Use your arms to grab both of the dumbbells and bring them up so that your forearms are resting against your thighs with the palms of the hands facing up. Your wrists should be hanging over the edge of your thighs.
Start out by curling your wrist upwards and exhaling.
Slowly lower your wrists back down to the starting position while inhaling. Make sure to inhale during this part of the exercise. Tip: Your forearms should be stationary as your wrist is the only movement needed to perform this exercise.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
When finished, simply lower the dumbbells to the floor.
@Seated_Dumbbell_Press
Grab a couple of dumbbells and sit on a military press bench or a utility bench that has a back support on it as you place the dumbbells upright on top of your thighs.
Clean the dumbbells up one at a time by using your thighs to bring the dumbbells up to shoulder height at each side.
Rotate the wrists so that the palms of your hands are facing forward. This is your starting position.
As you exhale, push the dumbbells up until they touch at the top.
After a second pause, slowly come down back to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Seated_Flat_Bench_Leg_Pull-In
Sit on a bench with the legs stretched out in front of you slightly below parallel and your arms holding on to the sides of the bench. Your torso should be leaning backwards around a 45-degree angle from the bench. This will be your starting position.
Bring the knees in toward you as you move your torso closer to them at the same time. Breathe out as you perform this movement.
After a second pause, go back to the starting position as you inhale.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
@Seated_Floor_Hamstring_Stretch
Sit on a mat with your right leg extended in front of you and your left leg bent with your foot against your right inner thigh.
Lean forward from your hips and reach for your ankle until you feel a stretch in your hamstring. Hold for 15 seconds, then repeat for your other side.